Learning has been equated to the fact that it can be acquired using books and other printed materials as primary tools. Because of people's desire to use and read more books, libraries were built. The first libraries in the world have been established since time immemorial, even during the era of the Greek period. Libraries before need not necessarily contained books as they appear and made of paper today. Some materials were even curved on stones and wood. However, the modern idea of having a library today has evolved to something as very unexpected to something as expected to contain leaves and pages of papers. This article is about how regional libraries were established and promoted. It should be noted however that the peculiarity of the evolution of regional libraries have included the presence of soft copy of sources which are not anymore made of paper. This is brought by the innovation in technology. The system of using card catalogues today has also been changed by the new discoveries and inventions of the modern era. Library can be equated with learning. Because of this fact, both the local and national governments recognize the importance of libraries and make it a point that libraries will be available and accessible to the citizens. During an official meeting with the National Governor's Association, the current President-elect Barack Obama recognized the effect library closings have on communities. Indeed, if libraries would be closed, it would have a very detrimental effect to the society. President Obama then discussed the potential budget shortfalls for the 41 states represented during the meeting. He also cited library closures as one of the drastic measures already being taken to balance state budgets. However, not every citizen of the United States would certainly be in favor of giving away a lot of state budgets for the sake of establishing regional libraries. This is because libraries would not really give direct benefit in terms of helping out the people who are most in need. For example, people would be more appreciative of budget being spent on items such as food. Because libraries are related to the educational system of a government, it would also be more obvious if the help that will be given by the government is the kind of help which directly subsidizes the tuition and other matriculation fees instead of merely providing them a place to study and books to read. To provide for an example on how regional libraries can be really of help to the residents of the area, this paper will present the case of Vancouver Island Regional Library. The regional library in Vancouver Island is a very good example of how a regional library can be established and run given the resources available. Certainly, it is not absolutely easy to create and manage a regional library. Of course, there are factors to consider. For example, the resources which can be found on the library should be updated and should be enough to support the academic needs of the people who will visit the library. Thus, a lot of regional libraries now contain not just the hard copy of the materials that they use but also the soft copy. It is recognized even at the global level that soft copy files and those that can easily be transferred are now being preferred by people because they can be read and analyzed without having the need to actually print out the details. In this way, it is also a way of conserving and preserving the environment. Vancouver Island Regional Library connects people in person and online to information for recreation, learning and inspiration. The management of Vancouver Regional Library recognizes that an online system would be effective and efficient in the dissemination of ideas. Here are some 2006 Customer Service Fast Facts of the Vancouver Island Regional Library. A number of 217,927 customers were registered as members of the regional Library. These members are actively borrowing materials as of January 2007 - it is known that there were 25,000 new registrations in 2006! For people who are interested in having their own library cards, they can register online on the website of the Vancouver Island Regional Library. VIRL was able to record that around customers borrowed over 4.4 million items. Statistically, this record would be equal to every item in VIRL being borrowed at least 3.5 times each during the year. Another interesting fact about this library is that there is a wide range of library members, with respect to their ages. 1839 adult, kids and teen programs were held in VIRL locations with 39,093 participants. As a library operating in the modern world, VIRL also recognizes that having an internet access in the library would be helpful in making things done in a fast manner. VIRL has 161 Public Internet Access Stations located throughout its branches - there were 622,720 visits to the VIRL website and 42,657 visits to VIRL databases in 2006. The pre-schoolers, with the assistance of their parents, are also able to participate in the activities being conducted by Vancouver Island Regional Library. 1,013 pre-school story times were held with 8,573 pre-schoolers in attendance and 4,251 kids took part in the Summer Reading Club. Due to the need of funds in order to be able to execute its projects, VIRL is also dependent on organizations and generous corporations and companies from where to get its fundings. A number of generous organizations and companies donated over $30,000 for VIRL Literacy Kits which are now in the following branches: Cowichan, Campbell River. Nanaimo Harbourfront, Nanaimo Wellington and Gold River, with many more rolling out to VIRL branches in 2007. The donations are very big help. Without these donations, it is more likely that the regional libraries would have insufficient funds for all its expensive projects. Undeniably, the fortune and fate of the libraries would really depend on the generosity of the government and the people who are willing to support the cause. In the management of library, persons specifically trained in handling libraries are employed. Most of the time, these people are the ones who have college degrees and courses related to library science. Library science is n interdisciplinary science known for incorporating humanities, law and applied science to study topics related to libraries, the collection, organization, preservation and dissemination of information resources, and the political economy of information. While many people think that librarians are just ordinary people who are there and happened to be employed by a library, they really are more than just being mere employees. They were specifically trained to address the concerns of the libraries and the people who go there for a visit or to research and study. The paper discussed important facts about regional libraries and how the significance of these buildings and facilities have been able to help. The paper also tackled the personnel who usually man the libraries. The facilities, equipment and the human beings behind the success of the regional libraries are indispensable for the continuous operation of these libraries.