KEYBOARD REVIEWS This article will give you different reviews of different stuff with keyboard. Reviews given by people who used and tried the below mentioned products will somehow give you ideas whether to consider them on your list or try another brand as these reviews can help you decide which product is good and which product needs upgrading before purchasing one.

Eluminated Eclipse II Keyboard The Saitek Eclipse II keyboard builds on the success of the backlit Eclipse and Gaming keyboards, now offering a choice of colors -- purple, red and blue -- selectable by the user and adjustable via a dimmer mechanism. The key characters and keypad illuminate that make the keyboard ideal to be used even in dark places. It is constructed from high quality materials that include a stylish silver casing, its weighted base and large area rubber feet keep it firmly planted onto to the desk, and while cushioned, silent keys could mean having hours of fatigue-free use. FEATURES- Eclipse II Keyboard- Black & Silver finish Key characters and keypad illuminate through laser-etched keys Media keys for volume control, play/pause and skip tracks Variable back lighting adjusts through dimmer mechanism Angle adjustment and extendable wrist rest for maximum comfort to suit the way you type.

Weighted base with large area rubber feet to keep keyboard securely planted to the desk. Quiet, cushioned keys for hours of stress-free use. Familiar 104 key layout USB System requirements: Win 2000, XP, XP64 True-Vu key illumination through the keys in three colors - Blue, Red and Purple.

104-key keyboard with LED key illumination and backlighting, Zero-Slope design and adjustable wrist rest for ergonomic comfort. Plug'N'Play design with USB connector features Variable lighting levels, plus volume control/Mute, and Play/Pause, skip and stop media keys. Silver and black finish features black keys with lazer-cut lettering.

Logitech MX3100 Cordless Desktop Laser Mouse And Keyboards Logitech MX3100 Cordless Desktop Laser Model: 967513-0403 Made: Logitech Date: 2005-04-25 Media: Electronics List Price: US$149.95 Description: The Logitech MX 3100 Cordless Desktop is a high-performance keyboard and mouse combination. It will exceed your expectations with a cordless desktop that features built-in Internet functionality and the MX 1000 Laser Cordless Mouse - the world's first laser mouse. It requires 2 AA batteries which are not included upon purchase. Although it has Logitech MediaLife software Operating System - Windows 98SE/2000/ME/XP Features: Has a featured Keyboard's zero-degree tilt design delivers ergonomic comfort Has a Rechargeable lithium ion mouse battery With a deeply-sculpted laser mouse for comfortable usage With 1-touch buttons for internet radio, instant messaging, scroll, tilt, and zoom Offers a 5-year warranty Reviews: Rating 4.0/5 from 37 reviews Rating: 2/5 This product arrived a little late, and then the seller failed to include the manual and the software CD.

I wss able to download both with quite a bit of effort. I'd say this seller failed to deliver as promised. Nice and reliable. Recommended Rating: 5/5 2006-12-26 Had this for about a year.

Nicely laid out keyboard. Nice feel and well spaced for my big hands. 95% of keyboards are too small for me.

Plenty of customizable options. Everything you need is on the keyboard. Mouse works well on all surfaces. Nice hand feel and good options. Only wish it would control sound and have a mute button. Mouse charger is nice. Mouse will work for weeks without a recharge, even under heavy usage. Keyboard batteries last for months.

Another quality Logitech product. Rating: 5/5 (5 out of 5 think this is helpful) 2006-03-18 This is my second try with Logitech. I first ordered the Bluetooth version which was HORRIBLE. I kept losing connection, the mouse would pause during use, there was delay in typing and mouse movement.

The MX3100 is a night and day difference, it is fantastic. I would buy it again any day. The mouse battery is incredible and I am on my original keyboard batteries after 1 1/2 months of steady use. Extremely good desktop set.

Rating: 5/5 (3 out of 3 think this is helpful) 2006-03-09 I bought this set mostly for the MX1000 mouse, since I liked the fit and feel of it. I decided to get the desktop set since I had wanted a wireless keyboard too. The mouse is smooth, charges quickly, keeps it's charge for a long time (I get about 2 weeks of heavy use), and is a good fit for my hand.

Pushing down on the middle button isn't as smooth as some mice, but isn't bad. The keyboard is very light, extremely quiet, has good, customizable controls, good wirelss range, and good battery life (I bought the set about 4 weeks ago and I am still using the batteries that came with the keyboard). The tilt stands could make the keyboard a little taller, but it is still usable. I would highly recommend this desktop set to everyone. Great Product Rating: 5/5 2006-03-08 I'm not a computer geek, but I really like this product.

I have a large wood computer cabinet with a slide out desk top and below that a slide out keyboard tray. My wires were constantly getting caught every time I opened and closed up my desk. This has made everything so much easier. One of the best investments I made.

Logitech Cordless Keyboard for Wii When you want to swing a virtual sword or a virtual tennis racquet , the Wii control is great . However, if you want to browse the Internet on the Wii Internet Channel, pointing and clicking at letters gets old real fast. Thus, Wii designed a USB keyboard. Design Logitech's keyboard is small, which is just about a foot by 7 inches, lap-friendly device, and is the same shade of white as the Wii itself. You just have to plug the keyboard's receiver in a Wii USB port, then place batteries in the keyboard and that's it... ready to serve you. The Wii keyboard's design is similar to that of laptop's, with the number pad and some other keys folded into the alphabet keys.

Logitech has placed in a couple of extra keys, like "OK" key that is equivalent to using your Wii remote to click an OK button (on a standard keyboard you would press alt+enter) and a Quit key. There are also zoom in, zoom out, forward and back buttons. These are all available on a normal keyboard (as plus, minus, cursor right and cursor left), but Logitech makes their use more apparent. Performance Like any other product, Logitech has also made a couple of strange design choices. Like the "OK" key which should logically be next to the "enter" key, the same way where the "quit" key placed next to "escape," Instead "OK" is stuck in an out-of-the-way part of the keyboard. Another is the Number pad functionality which is to be accessed using a "FN" key that turns letters to number, which is like a standard laptop keyboard method.

You still have to use the Wii remote for a lot of Internet navigation, simply because the Wii browser doesn't support all the keyboard functionality. Logitech's Cordless Keyboard for Wii is much easier to use compare to that of a conventional keyboard in spite of its few flaws, obviously because of its small size, and its performance in doing a good job of making browsing the Internet on your Wii. However, it won't do you any good at all when it's time to swing your racquet or sword beating your opponent.

I hope these reviews and featured characteristics of some equipment, which depend on a keyboard to work, give you insight which product has the quality in a very reasonable price. You can browse the internet still to look for different products that you can compare.