So, you discovered that your pet pooch has Canine Lymphoma, what can be done about the situation? Lymphoma is a common cancer in American domestic dogs, and fortunately, it is very treatable. Around half of dogs diagnosed with lymphoma go into remission. Most incidents of lymphomas respond very well to modern therapy, by using a combination of chemotherapy - sometimes radiation, although not very often - and immunomodulation therapy such as K-9 Immunity, or some equivalent immune system enhancers. In cases where the dog is otherwise healthy, this type of cancer has one of the highest remission rates of all canine cancers. Lets examine what canine lymphoma is before considering the different treatment options available for your beloved pet. What is Lymphoma?

Look at the lymph system as the body's "alternate" circulatory system, which circulates white blood cells and most importantly, lymphocytes. These are specialized cells involved in immune function found throughout the body. In healthy pets, these cells are produced in the bone marrow, and go through a life cycle of around 30 days. Then, they die off and are re-absorbed into the body or eliminated through the waste channels. When Lymphoma occurs, the regulation of production is changed and these cells proliferate in large number, or they lose their programed life cycle and continue to live on, overwhelming the other blood cells.

High white blood cell count and swollen lymph glands are the characteristic signs of this disease, followed by loss of appetite, lethargy, and eventually death unless treated.

James got out of the elevator on the 40th floor and knocked nervously on his blind date's apartment door. The door opened, and there stood this beautiful and charming woman, just as everyone had suggested. "I'll be ready in a jiffy" she said. "So why don't you play with Rollo while you're waiting, he's very clever and entertaining too.

He performs some wonderful tricks. He can roll over, shake hands, sit up, and if you make a hoop with your arms, he'll surely jump through." The dog followed James out to the balcony and, without any prompting, started rolling over.

James got into the spirit of things and formed a hoop with his arms. Rollo responded instantly and jumped straight through and, sailing majestically through the air promptly disappeared over the balcony railing into the darkness. Just then Jame's date walked out. "Isn't Rollo the cutest, happiest dog you've ever did see?" Thinking quickly James replied, "to tell the the truth," he said, "he seemed a little depressed to me - I mean who ever heard of a dog jumping off a balcony to end it all?"

Final Farewell Keeping our pet dogs in good health is a primary responsibility for any dog owner. Our dogs remain loyal and faithful to us throughout their short stint on the planet. The abuse some of us subject these wonderful creatures to is just too terrible. From the above article we can put certain assumptions together - we know for example that lymphoma cancer can attack one in every three dogs, that's a very high risk. But we also know that, if caught early enough, treatment is effective in up to 80% cases.

If it is costs that worry you as a dog owner, rather don't take on the responsibility in the first place. Your dog is just as entitled to the best medical attention as you and your own children receive. Medical aid for canines has been available for decades and is one of the best and most affordable ways of covering your beloved pet from all the ills that may befall him or her. You wouldn't consider having a child without thinking through the associated costs and responsibilities. Your dog is no different, and deserves your friendship, love and loyalty - remember, it's for a relatively short space of time (12 years is good going for a dog).