Example of products where you can find asbestos: It is used to strengthen cement and plastics and used for insulation, roofing, fireproofing, and sound absorption in the building and construction industry. It is used in vehicle brake shoes and clutch pads in the automotive industry. It has used to insulate boilers, steam pipes, and hot water pipes in the shipbuilding industry. It has also been used in ceiling and floor tile; plastics; paints, coatings, and adhesives. PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS Asbestos has already proven its physical properties that place it almost a superstar of industrial chemistry in the world. It surpasses steel's strength. It has tremendous thermal and electrical resistance, thermal stability, and it is non-flammable. It has strong and flexible fine fibers to be spun into a flame retardant, chemically inert thermal and electrical insulator material Note : Asbestos needs to be binded with better insulating materials to create the ultimate construction materials. Asbestos fibers have no detectible odor or taste. All asbestos are solids -- they are insoluble in water and do not move through soil Its color changes according to type and metallic composition. Generally, asbestos-containing iron may give a green color that ranges from a hint of green to solid green depending on the amount of iron it has: Crocidolite is the most adorned because of its being colorful including the shades of blue, green, and lavender. Tremolite does not contain iron, yet it is part of a continuous mineral series with actinolite, where iron and magnesium can freely substitute with each other. That's why some tremolite specimens may show a hint of pale green. Since Chrysotile and tremolite don't contain iron, they tend to color white. Actinolite and anthophyllite are also grouped as "white asbestos" and classified under the United Nations chemical ID numbering system as UN2590. Chrysotile asbestos is more flexible and has been considered to be less hazardous compare to either crocidolite or amosite. Amosite and crocidolite are classified as UN2212. They are considered to be the extremely hazardous asbestos, which have been commercially used. Until now, anthophyllite, actinolite and tremolite have been tagged as the "lesser evil" chrysotile under the UN Identification numbering system. Their occurrence in industry has been less extensive. Tremolite has been used for filtering chemicals in laboratories . Actinolite is used for industrial asbestos. And there is not much reported use of anthophyllite. These three of amphiboles have also non-asbestos. EXPOSURE RISKS The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the EPA, and the International Agency for Research on Cancer Asbestos has been classified ASBESTOS as a known human carcinogen - a substance that causes cancer. If products containing asbestos are disturbed, its tiny asbestos fibers are released into the air exposing people to it in their workplace, their communities, or their homes. And when these asbestos fibers are breathed in, they may get trapped in the lungs and remain there for a long time causing these fibers to accumulate and cause inflammation and scarring, which can affect breathing that can possibly lead to serious health problems like lung cancer and mesothelioma . We are going to talk about these later. Asbestos exposure may also increase the risk of asbestosis causing: coughing shortness of breath permanent lung damage other nonmalignant lung and pleural disorders, which include: pleural plaques (changes in the membrane surrounding the lung) pleural thickening pleural effusions ( abnormal collections of fluid between the thin layers of tissue lining the lung and the wall of the chest cavity). Everyone is exposed to asbestos even without being aware of it. However, most people don't become ill from their exposure since there are only low levels of asbestos present in the air, water, and soil. Usually, people who become ill are those who are exposed to asbestos on a regular basis like for example in their job, where they work directly with the material containing asbestos or through substantial environmental contact. Brake repair and maintenance And now added to the list: Any workers who handle vermiculite or industrial talc that could be contaminated. If people who are employed in industries associated with asbestos are at highest risk, their families can as well be at risk if the workers bring home their dirty work clothes. Nowadays, it is common for workers to remove their uniforms and take a shower prior to leaving the company. Their clothing that might be contaminated by asbestos is professionally laundered. Even though it is clear that being heavily exposed to asbestos can increase health risks, investigators have also found asbestos-related diseases in people who only have a brief exposures. In general, people who develop asbestos-related diseases don't show signs of illness for a long time after their first exposure, because it can take about 10 to 40 years or more for asbestos -related symptoms to appear. According to one study, the percentage of people that likely develop asbestosis are as follows, with the corresponding number of year exposure: 10% of individuals being exposed to high levels of asbestos for 10-19 years 73% of individuals exposed to high levels of asbestos for 20-29 years 92% of individuals exposed to high levels of asbestos for over 40 years A Finnish study indicated that the rate of asbestosis was: 22% of people work as construction workers employed for 10 yrs 22% of workers in the ship building industry after a year. However, the study shows that ship builders were significantly exposed to asbestos more than the construction workers on a daily basis . But the research didn't indicate if those workers exposed for 10-19 years were still working in an asbestos related job or if they had left. And although there are many contributory factors for developing asbestosis, it is generally acknowledged that its average latency period is 13-20 years. Although all forms of asbestos are considered hazardous; still, the different health risks depend on the types of asbestos fibers the disease may be associated with. But, all common asbestos commercial types have been associated with lung cancer , because they tend to stay in the lungs for a longer period of time. Here are several factors can help you determine how asbestos exposure affects humans : Duration : how long you were exposed to it Dose : how much asbestos you were exposed to Source of exposure: relate to the types of asbestos mentioned Chemical makeup, size, and shape of asbestos fibers you're exposed to Individual risk factors like smoking and pre-existing lung disease: we'll discuss these below. In the mid-90s, there was a reported rate decrease of newly diagnosed asbestosis. But, unfortunately, there was an increase rate of asbestos cancer-related deaths. However, due to stricter regulations, there was a sudden decrease of workers' exposure to asbestos in the same year; thus, there were fewer reported people developing asbestosis. LUNG CANCER In 1930s, it was suggested that there's a link between asbestos exposure and lung cancer. And only in 1955 when epidemiology finally pinpointed that asbestos can cause lung cancer in asbestos workers. The level and duration of asbestos exposure and the size of the fibers are significant factors to determine the likelihood and type of the developing cancer. The kind of Asbestos fibers and its effect: Long thin fibers - Usually, these fibers make their way to the lower respiratory tract. They can be found in the lung alveolar region. Shorter, thicker fibers - these fibers are likely to be found in the upper respiratory resulting for long fibers to be involved in lungs' diseases and target lower organs. Short fat fibers - These fibers are most often involved in the upper respiratory tract diseases. Short fibers are generally less toxic compared to long fibers, because they are more likely to be phagocytized and be cleared away. As mentioned, continued exposure to asbestos may make a a person more susceptible to asbestos related diseases. However, the disease' progression may occur even without continued exposure. Although many researchers dispute the link between asbestosis and lung cancer, there is considerable evidence suggesting that lung cancer occurs exclusively to people who already have asbestosis. Individuals who have pleural plaques yet no asbestosis don't appear to have increased rates for lung cancer development. Asbestos workers who also smoked cigarettes had a 50 to 90 times increase in lung cancer deaths compared to people who neither smoked nor were exposed to asbestos. For non-smokers, the rate of lung cancer deaths was 5 times greater than the general population. 