Interlude Classroom graffiti in the School: I'd give my right arm to be ambidextrous! So as to keep your school tidy; chuck your rubbish out of the windows. What does our teacher have in common with a peach? They both have a heart of stone! Teacher's a treasure - we wonder who dug her up! What good is a geography teacher when he can't even show the parents around the school? I like home teachers - keep them there! If you want to avoid being late for school in the morning, rather stay in bed until the afternoon. Cheater is an anagram of teacher. We thought one of our teacher's used to be a werewolf, but she's howl right now. The rain in Spain falls mainly on the plain; but over here it always falls on the school holidays! I am regarded as teacher's pet, because she can't afford a dog. Teachers are so unique, in fact they're in a class of their own. A bird in the hand - makes quite a mess. Administering School District: Hamilton County School District Tennessee County: Hamilton Pupil Grades Taught: 9th Grade to 12th Grade School Level: East Ridge High School is classified as a "High School", as in the Secondary Modern model. Type: East Ridge High School is a "Regular School", whatever that may mean! Operational Status: East Ridge High School was declared 'operational' at the time of its last annual report and this remains the status quo. +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ About East Ridge High School: The school is located in the "Urban Fringe of a Mid-size City", that is according to the state authorities. Talk about evolution... East Ridge High School, located in Chattanooga, Tennessee, serves grades 9-12 in the Hamilton County School District district. Based on its state test results, it has received a GreatSchools Rating of 3 out of 10. Now that is simply unacceptable, and the Principal should consider resigning with immediate effect. What the heck is going on in this so-called-school? Okay, maybe we are being a bit harsh when we consider the next review (below). In the latest standings, this school has an average Community Rating of 3 out of 5 stars , based purely on reviews from 14 school community members. How crap is that? Fourteen reviews from a High School that has the number of pupils this one has? What is wrong with you parents - you don't have the time to study your children's progress at this vital point in their lives? If we were part of this community, we believe that this school needs a sh*t load of improvement. It needs to take a more diverse history and cultural approach just for starters. We also find that while the teachers are very dedicated to their jobs, as well as their and students, the parents really need to 'extract digitum' . We further find that the administrators are operating in a manner which they think is right, but they can't see beyond their noses. That is a candid assessment, but we feel that if someone in authority actually sat down and talked with us - as a PTA-collective - we could make the school better by far. Attracting more students would be a good move for heaven's sake! The scholars really should want to go to school - that is their side of the bargain. In terms of feedback, one item emerges again and again - the students are very keen to learn more about their history, since many of them are descended from Hispanic, Asian and African backgrounds. We forget our history at our own peril - this seems to be the important message being conveyed to the decision makers. East Ridge High School (Kentucky) In this section, we consider East Ridge High School in the locality of Lick Creek, Kentucky. Now, while we all know what Kentucky is real famous for - hint, Colonel Saunders - but here, we are talking here about a public secondary school. This is but one out of five high schools in Pike County, and it happens to form the largest school in the county. The present enrollment is 734 students. Name: East Ridge High School Location: 19471 Lick Mountain Road, Lick Creek, KY Basic information: Type - Public High School facility Year established - 2002 Principal - Kevin Justice, he's doing a fine Job! Pupil Grades - 9-12 Student enrollment - 734 School mascot - Warrior (not sure if it's an American-Indian?) For further information, call Martin Potthast on: (606) 835-2811 Website - http://pcstein5.medien.uni-weimar.de:8080/pan-plagiarism-odesk-editor/#task=wt0911140-search Synopsis: This particular East Ridge High School was built in 2002. The requirement was to house students from three smaller high schools, namely: Feds Creek High School, Millard High School, and Elkhorn City High. Ralph Kilgore was the school's first principal, and he retired in 2007. Students - Current enrollment is approximately 734. Athletics - This East Ridge has only been a school for a few years, but already, athletics have proven to be very competitive so far. Some of the championships this ERHS has won are: 2008 59th District Boys Baseball Champions Then, from the oldest records: 2003 59th District Boys Basketball Champions 2003 54th District Girls Volleyball Champions 2004 59th District Boys Basketball Champions 2004 KHSAA 15th Regional Boys Basketball Champions 2005 59th District Girls Fast Pitch Softball Champions 2006 56th District Girls Volleyball Champions 2006 59th District Cheerleading Champions 2007 KHSAA 15th Regional Girls Fast Pitch Softball Champions 2007 56th District Girls Volleyball Champions We found that this High School was a really decent role model, and should be considered for the other three schools with the same name. Yes, we are being judgmental, but that is how things work. East Ridge High School (Florida) Our third review concerns the facility known as East Ridge High School, Clermont, in Florida. Being one of seven public high schools in Lake County, East Ridge forms the largest school in Lake County. However, it was intended to hold a maximum 1,800 students at the most, but this soon proved insufficient for the ever-growing population of Clermont. This count has more than doubled in recent times, with the result that there are 3,084 Students enrolled as of January 14th this year. This particular East Ridge has a solid reputation, and is acknowledged for its athletic programs as well as its very own musical band department. This school should be proud of itself and its achievements - they received the national and state award for the best run High School last year, and this has resulted in increased interest from the local community too. Many parents in the area are now keen to have their children educated at this facility. The question surely is, do the kids really appreciate what they now have on their doorstep? Basic Information: Name: East Ridge High School Location:13322 Excalibur Road Clermont, FL Information: Type/Public Established: 2002 Principal: Cleveland Brown Grades: 9-12 Enrollment: +/- 3,000 Mascot: Knights More information: Martin (352) 242-2080 Website: http://pcstein5.medien.uni-weimar.de:8080/pan-plagiarism-odesk-editor/#task=wt0911140-search School History The address was, 13322 Excalibur Road, and East Ridge High School was constructed at in 2002. It is one of the newer high schools in Lake County, Florida. Originally, the school was built with the overflow of what was the mother, and now has become the sister-school, namely, South Lake High School, which is in the Groveland locality. School Students Presently standing at just over 3,000 students, enrollment at East Ridge High School serves a somewhat diverse population. School Sports Well, this is where East Ridge School tends to standout. They train in their practice fields or gym or at the National Training Center just a mile from campus, and they play the majority of their home games at their home turf, known affectionately as "The Dungeon" football field. Sports include: Let's examine, co-ed soccer, co-ed tennis, women's softball, men's baseball, co-ed swimming/diving, and boys' and girls' lacrosse women's volleyball, co-ed basketball, co-ed golf, and men and woman's football. Not a bad start when it comes to sport, and certainly a fine account for this High School! Considering their short history, many of the athletic teams have achieved great success. For example, in their second year (2003), the volleyball team reached the Final Four in the 5A division. In 2005, The basketball team reached the Final Four in the 5A division. However, the most noted sports team is their football program. The east ridge golf team was undefeated in the 2007-2008 season. Their record was 14-0, very impressive! Specifically Football Considering that the East Ridge Knights football team is the best known athletic team at the school - particularly during its unbeaten winning streak - its obvious success has aspired the more-recent generations. We all have to accept that we are not necessarily from the 'top drawer' , but, after the poor-streak had ended, it experienced mild success. However, it could not beat the Edgewater Eagle Curse over the previous three years. Indeed, East Ridge has played against Edgewater in the playoffs for the last three years running, and only losing by a close margin each time. In terms of rankings, East Ridge was rated position #9 for the 2008 football year. The consideration was in all central Florida counties. The Orlando Sentinels, teamed up with www.fridaynightfootball.net to provide the ratings. E ast Ridge Ratings Unfortunately, the Florida Department of Education ascribed the school a "D" rating in 2003-2004. Matters improved in the next scholastic period, when the school received a "C" rating. It went on to receive a "C" rating in 2005-2006. Shuffling backwards (it seems), in the 2006-2007 school year East Ridge High School received a "D" rating. Proudly though, more recently, the school earned a "B" rating in the 2007-2008 school year. The Band Program Currently, the ERHS Band Program is under the direction of one Jack Hart. It seems that the program for the band provides a well-rounded musical experience for its students too, with special emphasis focused on the area of Marching themes. Let's not forget that Jazz and Concert Band performances, as well as exerts from the Color Guard, Winter Guard, and Indoor Percussion, continue to attract. Since the school opened its doors, the band program has consistently received a superior rating, with the possible exception of the 2004-2005 concert band, which received a rating of excellent. Concert Season During the 2006-2007 school year, East Ridge High School's Wind Ensemble presented to the State Competition, receiving scores of good, and excellent results in overall good ratings. This marks the first time East Ridge has even gone to State Competition for Concert Band, drected by Jack Hart, along with the band, comprising o f 51 students. Jazz Band Amazingly, the East Ridge Jazz Band constantly attracts so-called superior competition all year round. Indeed, over the past 2 years, the jazz band managed to win grand championships at Lakeside Jazz Festival, down at Port Orange. Don't forget, for the first time in school history, as well as in Mr. Hart's personal career, the jazz band had to have straight, rather than "Gay" superiors at state competition, which was about to be held at West Port High School, Ocala. Marching Band East Ridge Band is best known for its Marching band program, which, incredibly have received fantastic reviews since their inauguration. Starting out in 2003, this band have become the largest marching variation in Lake County,as ell as in their own district in the Florida Bandmasters Association. Videos show that on October 27th, 2007, the Marching Knights went to the Ancient City Presentation of Bands in St. Augustine, where they notched up a final score of 85.5, winning their first serious competition . October 26th, 2008, saw the Marching Knights win another competition at St. Augustine. The final score was a credible 86.6. This made it the second year in a row when the band successfully lifted the Ancient City Presentation of Bands' competition. Their rating was the highest ever received by the band, and with this score, the ERHS band also featured at the State Competition. This was a massive accomplishment for the band, and all were rightfully very proud. While the band tried hard, they could not make it to the finals at the state competition in 2009. Placed 9th in class 5a with a score of 82.34, they were somewhat outclassed. Percussion The Drum line of the Ridge Percussion was directed by Ryan Wright. Since arriving in 2005, the percussion have received their highest ratings in marching and indoor percussion. Quite some accolade for the school. Not surprisingly, the indoor percussion have even managed to bing in band members from other musical instruments to play. During the 2006-2007 season, the East Ridge Percussion section managed to compete for the first time ever in Indoor Percussion competition. All through the season, the section competed with various other school groups, each varying in size and skill. When it came to competition, East Ridge's managed no lower than 3rd place. Then, they achieved the highest scores in two competitions, managing 2nd place in one of the two, down to a timing penalty. Competing a the State championships, the team arranged all of their hard work and practice to claim 3rd place overall, narrowly missing 2nd and first by just one point. Mr. Wright left East Ridge In 2008, to take up the position of head director of rival school, South Lake High School. Since then, a new director has be appointed to oversee the percussion section. His name is Mr.North. School Clubs This school offers a wide variety of clubs, for example: HOSA Anime Robotics (Has a team for FIRST competitions) Key Club FFA FCCLA FEA Culinary Cooking Team Television Production Video Games Fellowship of Christian Athletes Student Government Association The Riot (spirit) Knights Marching Band Concert Band Jazz Band Chorus National Honor Society Future Business Leaders of America Graphic Design Thespians (Drama) Tri-M (National Music Honor Society) School Discipline This represents a serious area for concern - East Ridge High School has received numerous bomb threats and rumored gun shootings, can you believe this? Commencing in 2006, just a day before spring break started for Lake County students, a bomb threat was reported on April 7, declaring that a bomb was placed in one of the main administration buildings. Students were evacuated and taken to the football field - later, the auditorium was also used. The event lasted for over 3 hours. Unfortunately, the threats became even more frequent in 2007, when four bomb threats were reported to authorities. One threat was reported in March, with the other three being called in April. As it happened, two of the threats were reported in the same week. Considering the latest bomb threat, some students were located in a bathroom, and were identified as making the calls, and were subsequently expelled from Lake County Public Schools. Shooting (gun) rumor High drama occurred at this East Ridge High School May 7, 2007. A rumor was circulating, the source being a junior student, about a shooting that would take place on the approaching seniors' last day of school (May 11, 2007). Initial comment was that seniors would be shot, but this changed to the killing of those wearing green - the senior color. Eventually by the Thursday, several students took the rumor to be false, and that no shooting was going to take place. Nevertheless, rumors such as this one have a habit of scattering fear and uncertainty, with the net effect being that more than 1,200 students (including 300 seniors) were absent from school on the final day. In the end though, nothing untoward happened, but the school authorities were not very happy about the lingering legacy that the rumor would leave for many years to come. Policy Protest But that's not all, because in the 2006-2007 school year at this school, another rumor was doing the rounds. This time, it concerned an alleged riot that was being organized over certain new, strict policy to be put in place to stamp out tardiness at the school. The rumor was thought to have started as a discussion put out on the school's MySpace forum. Needless-to-say, it quickly went viral, circulating as it did to every single student in short space. At first, the intention was to keep the rumor secret and just among the students. Naturally though, it soon found its way to teachers, administrators, and then externally too. In terms of the 'information' released, the protest was scheduled for the first day of the new policy measures. It was set up to happen in the courtyard between the main buildings between first and second period. Talk of hundreds of students participating in the action were rife. When the fateful day arrived, extra police officers were placed at the school to confront the protesters. They had brought along sufficient handcuffs to restrain the forecast number of protesters. Teachers were positioned outside the target zone to get pictures of the rebel student group. When the hour arrived, only a small group of 130 students assembled in the courtyard. There no signs of any rioting, just a stand off, literally. Other students stood around the passageways, and were heard to continually chant, "Hell no, we won't go!" The principal used the morning assembly ritual to announce that the students that had grouped in the courtyard would be suspended or expelled. The rumor was effectively quashed, and no arrests were made. Interestingly, the newly-announced tardy policy measures have remained firmly in effect. The current school principal is of the view that if children are not properly controlled, they will attempt to control their own situation. Vandalism and Breaking and Entering In March 2007, East Ridge High School was broken into. Acts of vandalism have occurred but nothing like breaking and entering. Portables Computers were accessed, and the thieves stole, laptops, speakers, projectors, and scientific calculators. The next day the principal at the time made a announcement that a robbery had taken place and that around $10,000 of school assets had gone missing. The crooks even had the audacity to leave a clue as to their origins - they wrote the name The Untouchables on a white board. After some excellent sleuthing work, Clermont police tracked down the thieves, and they where arrested and charged. The arrests helped Clermont police track down another syndicate of thieves that had broken into Clermont Middle and removed school property. School Fight Club & Sex Scandal Suffice it to say here that the school authorities now have the situation in hand and that certain individuals have had to face child pornography charges. How silly is that at such an impressionable age, but such punishment needs to be handed down to prevent others from considering a similar path. HOME District 833 Registration Staff PLTW Video Coaching Info Athletics ERHS Apparel ERHS BLOG School Song Contest Earn $ for East Ridge Community Links (Click on the Info to Go icon to sign up for East Ridge updates emailed directly to you) Email questions or comments to: ERHSsuggestion@sowashco.k12.mn.us You are invited to attend the East Ridge High School fall season head coach meet & greet opportunity. This event will take place on Wednesday, January 28 from 7:00 to 8:30 pm @ Lake Junior High in the Cafeteria. Aaron Harper, Matt Kraft, and Gretchen Romain will talk about the progress of the school and introduce the coaches that have joined the Raptor team so far. This brief presentation will be followed with small breakout groups by sport. At this time, you will have an opportunity to meet the coach and hear more about them. The coach will share information about their past experiences, their vision for the program, future team building events involving students and families, summer training opportunities for student-athletes, and more. Please join us as we begin the journey as East Ridge Raptors……Soaring to New Heights. Cheerleading Cindy Lambert Cross Country TBD* Football Ray Betton Boy's Soccer Phil Walczak Girl's Soccer Mark Abboud Girl's Swimming & Diving TBD** Girl's Tennis Jon Rydberg Volleyball TBD* *Cross Country, Football, and Volleyball coaches will be named soon and before 1/28/09. **The Girl's Swimming and Diving head coach most likely will not be named before 1/28/09. The East Ridge Competitive Dance Team will be a MSHSL winter sport at East Ridge. The coach will be named after the winter season is concluded. In other East Ridge News: EAST RIDGE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION is up and running and will be offering high quality in-house and travelling youth sports teams beginning this year (2009!). If you would like more information about ERAA, please visit our website at ERAAMN.com and register for FREE ERAA news updates. ERAA- Future Raptors Built Here ™ East Ridge News Future East Ridge Students - Opportunity for Engineering Program 2008-2009 -- (posted on 10-20-08) Aaron Harper, East Ridge High School Principal Phone: 651-458-6206 Email: aharper@sowashco.k12.mn.us Office: District Service Center - 7362 E. Point Douglas Road S Cottage Grove, MN 55016 The Fall of 2009 is set to be an exciting time for South Washington County Schools when the district opens East Ridge High School, the district's third comprehensive high school. At the same time, the district will undergo grade configuration change and the three high schools will house students in grade 9-12. For the first year of the school's opening, seniors will remain at either Woodbury or Park High Schools. Construction is well underway for the new high school. CLICK HERE to view the Photo Gallery Who will attend the new high school? The board has approved the administrative recommendation to allow existing seniors at the district's current high schools, Woodbury and Park, to remain at their schools. All students who will enter grades 9, 10 and 11 in the fall of 2009 will be assigned to one of the three high schools based on their attendance area. The decision to suspend inter-district transfers for the first year has also been approved. 