KIWI(fruit) INTRODUCTION People are always trying to find the best prevention against common diseases in a drugstore and most commonly in a clinic or in a hospital without realizing that sometimes what they are looking for are just around the corner or just even planted on their own yard. The power of fruits and vegetables as natural healers has been established; thus, doctors and even researchers are advising people to have a diet rich in fruits and vegetables for they contain nutrients that can fight cancer-causing viruses and different common diseases which drugs can't do nor give.

(sunny peach) or Mihou Tao (macaque peach). This interesting species is native to the provinces of Hupeh, Szechuan, Kiangsi and Zhejiang Province on the coast of eastern China. It was cultivated on a small scale at least 300 years ago, but still, most of the 1,000-ton crop is derived from wild vines scattered over 33 of the 48 Zhejiang counties today.

Kiwi can taste good with yogurt as well because its flavor balances the yogurt's sourness.It is as well good to be combined with your morning cereal making it more nutritious and fun to eat. This fruit can be as versatile as other kinds of fruits, so discovering its kitchen's benefits can be a lot of fun especially to people who find kiwi gross because of its hairy skin.

MAIN CHINESE CLASSES OF KIWIFRUIT 1) 'Zhong Hua' ("Chinese gooseberry")-This is the most commonly grown. Texture: round to oval, or oblate Weight: varies from 6.5 to 80 g, averaging 30 to 40 g. Sugar content : 4.6 to 13.1%; ascorbic acid, 25.5 to 139.7 mg per 100 g. Three subvarieties : - "Yellow flesh"- average weight of 30.2 g; sugar content, 9.0%; ascorbic acid 101.9 mg per 100 g. - "Green flesh"-average weight 18.4 g; sugar content, 5.4 %; ascorbic acid, 55.7 mg per 100 g. - "Yellow-green" and "Green-yellow"-average weight 31 to 48 g; sugar content 5.4%; ascorbic acid 85.5 mg per 100 g. Not suitable for canning sliced or for jam. 2) 'Jing Li' ("northern pear gooseberry")-Its leaves are usually hairless.It is an elongated oval with green flesh.

3) 'Ruan Zao' ("Soft date gooseberry")-This usually grows in the hills. It is small, with green flesh and quite sweet that makes it good for jam. 4) 'Mao Hua '-may be tight- or loose-haired type which has green and sweet flesh. Its leaves are elongated oval and relatively broad and thick. In 1980, several thousand seedlings of a promising kiwi clone were set out in an experimental plot in Pukekohe, New Zealand because plant breeders are endeavoring to develop an acceptable hairless kiwifruit. California now uses Drip irrigation plus the overhead sprinklers which have the additional value of plant protection during cold spells and from heat in dry seasons. During the 8-month growing season, a mature orchard is said to require 40 in (1,000 mm) of water more than 1/2 of it in the 3 summer months. Some growers plant a permanent cover crop of inoculated clover to aid water penetration , control dust, and provide additional nitrogen for the kiwifruit crop.

However, clover must be mowed at pollinating time to prevent the flowers from attracting the bees away from the kiwi vines. For good growth, the vine needs fertile , deep, well-drained but moist soil preferably a friable, sandy loam. Heavy soils subject to water logging are completely unsuitable. In Kiangsi Province, China, the wild plants flourish in a shallow layer of "black wood earth" on top of red , stony subsoil. The bearing habits of the vine are variable -- a light crop one season is likely to be followed by a heavy crop the next season, and vice versa. In California, 4-year-old vines have yielded 14,000 lbs per acre (15.7 MT/ha) and 8-year-old vines have yielded 18,000 lbs per acre (20 MT/ha), which is nearly the maximum for mature plants which are about 8 to 10 years old. New Zealand production begins in May and the fresh or stored fruits are exported through November.

In California, the vines put out new leaves in mid-March, bloom in early May and the fruit ripens in November after the leaves have fallen. The marketing season extends from November through April because the fruits hold so well in storage. The French season corresponds to that of California. In New Zealand, a minimum picking-maturity standard is 6.25% soluble solids while California kiwifruits are harvested when they attain 6.5 to 8% soluble solids. It is ripe for eating when it yields to slight pressure.

There are few ways on how to harvest the kiwifruit. They can be picked by hand or break the stalk at its natural abscission point or are clipped very close to the base of the fruit to avoid stem punctures. They are carried in field boxes to packing stations after picking. In well-equipped packing plants, the fruits are mechanically conveyed across a brushing machine that removes the hairs and, in some plants, the styles and sepals as well. The fruits are graded for size (25 to 54 per flat).

For shipment, about 7 lbs (3 1/4 kg) of fruits are arranged in a plastic tray covered with perforated polyethylene and packed in a fiberboard or wooden box.

Of course, just like other fruits, kiwifruit should be handled with extra care as well even if it's already packed in a hard case to avoid being bruised since its body is very sensitive. Bruised kiwifruit may give less expected income and not fun to eat anymore.

Severe symptoms, however, are most likely to occur in young children. The hairs on the skin can cause throat irritation if ingested. It might be wise to avoid excessive consumption of raw kiwifruits until more is known of the body's reaction to actinidin. For commercial canning: the partly softened fruits are peeled by a mechanical steam peeler or by immersing in a boiling 15% lye solution for 90 seconds. Then they are washed in cold water, trimmed by hand, rinsed, and cooked in syrup in standard #2 1/2 vacuum-sealed cans. Kiwifruits that are overripe or poorly shaped are being utilized for flavoring ice cream and for commercial juice production blended with apple to reduce acidity. While the slightly under ripe fruits, which are high in pectin, are being used for making jam, jelly, and chutney.

Freeze-dried kiwifruit slices are shipped to health food outlets in Sweden and Japan. In the latter country, they are sometimes coated with chocolate. For preservation by freezing : Experiments have shown drying to be practical if the lye-peeled whole fruits are first dipped in a sugar solution to improve flavor, then dehydrated at temperatures below 150ยบ F (65.56ยบ C). The fruits are similarly peeled, sliced and immersed for 3 minutes in a solution of 12% sucrose, 1% ascorbic acid, and 0.25% malic acid, quick-frozen, then put into polyethylene bags and stored at 0ยบ F (-17.78ยบ C). The peeled whole fruits may be pickled with vinegar, brown sugar, and spices. Cull fruits can be made into wine too.

The Kiwifruit Wine Company of New Zealand, Ltd., has a contract to sell "Durham Light", a medium-sweet wine, throughout Japan. The Gibson Wine Company in Elk Grove, California, is making kiwifruit wine with an 11.5% alcohol content. Kiwifruit plant can be used like a herbal medicine too. Its branches and leaves are boiled in water and the liquid used for treating mange in dogs.

In China, the fruit and the juice of the stalk are esteemed for expelling "gravel". The scraped stems of the vine are used as rope in China, and paper has been made from the leaves and bark. If the bark at the base of the vine close to the roots is removed in one piece and placed in hot ashes, it will roll into a firm tube which can be used as a pencil.

Let us put in mind that whatever food we eat -- fruits, vegetables, meat, etc-- it is always a wise decision to know first the allergic reactions of the food and its possible effect to our overall health before indulging with it. Nevertheless, it has been proven that proper consumption of any food can give ample amount of health benefits.