Here are some of the advantages and limitations of online TV: Advantages 1. Interactivity - As it is an IP based platform, it also allows a number of opportunities for making the TV viewing experience much more interactive as well as personalized. 2. Video on Demand or VoD - It permits any customer to brows online movie catalogues, watch trailers and to select a movie that he wants to watch. 3. Converged Services - This is another advantage of an IP-based network as it provides an opportunity for integration as well as convergence. Converged services result in the seamless interaction of existing services in order to create new value added services. One such example is On-Screen Caller ID, which allows you to get Caller ID on your TV along with an the ability to handle it. Limitations As IPTV is based on Internet Protocol, it is always sensitive to packet loss and delays in case the IPTV connection is not fast. 3. Tape it off the Internet - It provides 2,000+ TV shows or more than 90,000 episodes that include all the big shows like Prison Break, Lost, etc. 4. Streamic provides more then 300 real TV channels including NBC, ABC, BBC1, ESPN and many more. These are organized in categories and also ranked by the site users. 5. TVlinks is a directory that amalgamates popular TV shows, cartoon as well as anime series. 6. PPStream provides sports and movies all in one place. All that you need to do is to choose any show from the available list of channels. 7. ABC allows you to watch popular shows like Desperate Housewives, Lost, Alias etc online. 8. PeekVid provides an access to more than 700 episodes of popular shows like 24, Buffy, Family Guy, Desperate Housewives and many more. Shows can easily be downloaded from here. 9. PPlive is a popular service that allows you to watch a number of foreign channels. 10. TV-Video offers the latest TV shows as they are aired and these include 24, Prison Break, Smallville, Lost and many more. 11. TVU Player is a nifty little player and it offers its users a variety of channels that may be used for watching normal TV or Sport. It is worth mentioning that US channels can also be found on this player. 12. Chooseandwatch is a free TV portal that allows you to watch more than two hundred and fifty online TV channels. 13. Channelking provides its users with the best possible selection of free Internet television channels. Free broadband television channels from all over the world enable its users to watch TV from anywhere. 