'Is That a Poem in your Pocket?" - Ideas to Resurrect a Dead Art "Poetry is not dead!" So declares American poet and criticVictor De Lafante. According to De Lafante, all of the obituarieswritten in poetry's honor over the past 20 years are nothing butfiction or the wishful thinking of lazy critics. Poetry is alive and well,you just need to know where it's hiding these days. However, the fact that this argument even needs to be made shows just how far poetry's star has waned.From being one of the dominant modes of artistic expression for hundreds of years, in the last 50 years poetry has fallen into the domain of preservation societies. In the eyes of many it has become nothing but a quaint hobby for comfortable old men pondering their pastoral houses.

The times have changed. The MTV generation gave way to the I-pod generation and the first generation to come in out of the cloud. And poetry just hasn't made its way onto play-lists for years. The lyricism of hip-hop opened up new ground for poetic expression in the nineties, and on hip-hop's coat-tails came 'SLAM'.

However, even SLAM and Def Poetry Jam failed to deliver the renaissance in poetry it promised. So what do we do about it? This isn't just about poor old poets finding a market for their wares.Philosophers have long held up poetry as the highest art-form. If thecandle of poetry is smothered, society loses one of its guidinglights.

However, (as you'd expect) poets are far from speaking in one voice about what should be done. In fact,the question itself highlights some deeply entrenched faultlines within the poetic community. Poem in Your Pocket Day Let's start with the American Academyof Poets. This 'trade union' of poets seeks to promote poetry andpoet's interests across the country.

The Academy believes that poetry just needs to get more air-time. People will love it if only it can muscles it's way into their lives. One of the key ways they do this is through National Poetry Month. Many argue that poetry needs to re-engage with this revolutionary drive andcelebrate this unique role in society in order to able to engage withnew audiences, even if this means alienating the establishment (andpotential funding sources). A particularly potent and successfulexample is the Split this Rock Festival.Earlier this year, this four-day festival brought hundreds of poets of conscience and activists to Washington, D.C. from all over the United States for readings, panels, workshops, a film program, walking tours, open Mics, and inspiration. Spoken Word and the SLAM Revolution Many argue that with the advent oftelevisions, radio and the music industry, it is not just poetry, butall forms of the written word that are in decline. The problem, theyargue, is not with poetry, but with the vehicles it travels in.Poetry needs to find ways to be recorded, or presented live.

Poetry's advantage they also argue, isthat this is not something new for poetry. Rather it is about takingpoetry back to it's spoken and performed roots. It is aboutreconnecting with the tradition of the bard and the troubadour.

Thisis what the movements in Spoken Word performance and SLAM poetry seekto do.

But how do we define what spoken wordis? Spoken Word is a term adopted first adopted by academia in the early 80's to recognize a wave of new word-based performance art that came springing out of the Postmodern Art Movement. Spoken Word was basically a catch-all category to lump together anything that didn't fit into the already well established categories of performance: Music, Theatre & Dance. Some word performance art had been around for eons- storytelling, sound-emphasis poetry, African American toasting, reggae riddims… these forms just hadn't received much attention and suddenly the well-educated acknowledged the exclusion. Suddenly people felt politically incorrect. It is difficult to explain in only a few words how & why Spoken Word finally saw a heyday.

It's hard to illustrate the strange, unpredictable process of assigning a new label for a new consciousness. It is also true that the term Spoken Word implies that any words that are spoken might qualify as Spoken Word, but then what if it's only recorded, not actually performed live? We might ask "If a word plays on a recorder & no one's there to hear… is it Spoken Word?" As such there is no simple, singular definition for Spoken Word. And maybe there shouldn't be-most independent artists resent being cubby-holed since it puts a crimp in "the experiment".

Most word artists have historically been & currently are rebel artists; often they are marginalized people or social change activists. These artists resent "experts" defining their work and suspect a link to those who would streamline art as a commodity. For the sake of scholarly study & to secure federal arts funding, however, academia seems to have settled on a definition: Spoken Word is a category of performance art to encompass any new seriously developed genre or traditional form that is primarily word-based & is not exclusively Music, Theatre or Dance but may include collaborations with other non-word-based art genres or works created in collaboration with artists from non-word-based disciplines.

While Spoken Word as a genre sought to bring existing poetic forms into the fold. SLAMs sought to create a new format for the presentation of poetic forms. These fast-paced performance contestssought to draw in the familiar specatles of sport in the performance.Through audience judging, they sought to tie the audience into thespecatcle, and make them part of the performance itself. Partstand-up comedy, part hip-hop battle, the new format quickly gainedin popularity.

And what does the establishment make ofSLAMs? Many argue that contests are often a triumph of style oversubstance, and everything that makes poetry great has been lost. Thesubtlety and delicate emotional insights of poetry are forsaken forflashy word-play, hype and comedy. However, while some of these criticismsmay be fair for particular SLAM poets, they are not for all, andthere are many quality poets emerging from the SLAM scene thatimpress even the stiffest proponents of the page. Take for examplethe universally celebrated Saul Williams.