Climate Change and Rice Cultivation Formed by concerned groups with crop cultivation in mind, the IPCC was established to provide relevant stake holders and decision-makers interested in the affects of climate change. While the IPCC does not conduct any research, or monitor climate related data or parameters, its role is to assess on a comprehensive, objective, open and transparent basis the latest scientific, technical and socio-economic literature produced worldwide relevant to the understanding of the risk of human-induced climate change. In addition, the observed and projected impacts and options for adaptation and mitigation form part of the IPCC mandate. Though reports should be neutral with respect to policy, they need to deal objectively with policy relevant scientific, technical and socio economic factors. Above all, they should be of high scientific and technical standards, and aim to reflect a range of views, expertise and wide geographical coverage. W ho is the IPCC? Essentially, it is a scientific intergovernmental body set up by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) and by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). The component elements are: Scientists: hundreds of scientists all over the world contribute to the work of the IPCC as authors, contributors and reviewers. Governments: the IPCC is open to all member countries of WMO and UNEP. Governments of participate in plenary Sessions of the IPCC where main decisions about the IPCC workprogramme are taken and reports are accepted, adopted and approved. They also participate the review of IPCC Reports. People : as United Nations body, the IPCC work aims at the promotion of the United Nations human development goals Why the IPCC was Created Acknowledging that climate change is a very complex issue, policymakers require an objective source of information about the causes of climate change, its potential environmental and socio-economic consequences and the adaptation and mitigation options to respond to it. This forms the fundamental reasons why WMO and UNEP were established under the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in 1988. Fundamentally, the IPCC is a scientific body in that the information it provides with its reports is based on scientific evidence and reflects generally held viewpoints within the relevant scientific community. The comprehensiveness of the scientific content is maintained through contributions from experts in all regions of the world and all relevant disciplines including, where appropriately documented, industry literature and traditional practices, and a two-stage review process by experts as well as governments. In addition, because of its inter-governmental nature, the IPCC is able to provide scientific technical and socio-economic information in a policy-relevant, but policy neutral manner to the decision makers. When governments accept the IPCC reports and approve their Summary for Policymakers, they also acknowledge the legitimacy of their scientific content. Last, but by no means least, the IPCC provides its reports according to specific schedules. What's more, the output is immediately accepted as standard works of reference, and are widely used by policymakers, students and experts. The revelations of the first IPCC Assessment Report of 1990 played a large and decisive role in leading to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), which was opened for signature in the Rio de Janeiro Summit in 1992 and came into force in 1994. It makes provision for the overall policy framework for addressing the climate change issue. The IPCC Second Assessment Report of 1995 provided essential input for the negotiations of the Kyoto Protocol in 1997 and the Third Assessment Report of 2001 as well as Special and Methodology Reports provided further information relevant for the development of the UNFCCC and the Kyoto Protocol. The IPCC continues to be a major source of data for the negotiations under the UNFCCC. Paella Paella is one of my absolute favorites, and likely the most famous Spanish dish. Who else has ever made such artwork out of leftovers and then presented the dish so magnificently? Paella - it derives from the Arabic word baqiyah (literally: leftovers ) - is a rich saffron rice with a variety of seafood, meat pieces, and vegetables. Legend has it that the dish was created by servants of Moorish kings who ruled parts of Spain for centuries. The servants were allowed to take mixed leftovers from the sumptuous feasts of their masters to their own homes in large pots. Today, there are many paella derivatives, rather like curry having taken on several appearances. However, the original recipe is understood to have been credited to Valencia. Valencians truly love their paella and even honor the dish as their main meal on Sunday. So let's review what goes into Paella Valenciana: Ingredients Olive Oil 1 red Bell Pepper, cut in strips 750 grams of Chicken, cut into pieces 500 grams of Rabbit meat, cut into pieces Hal-a-teaspoon sweet Paprika 700 g Green Beans, cut into 3cm pieces 700 g Broad Beans, shelled 500 grams of chopped Tomato One liter of Water 100 g Rice per person Salt Freshly ground black pepper, Saffron Cooking Instructions Heat 1/4-1/2 cup of the oil in a large pan and add the pieces of pepper. Fry until pepper starts to soften, then remove and leave to garnish the dish. At medium heat fry the rabbit and chicken. Add the paprika to add more color. Push the pieces of meat out to the edges of the pan and put in the tomatoes and beans in the middle, mixing them well. Pour 1/2 of the water and cover the pan. Simmer all ingredients for approximately half hour until most of the water evaporate. Then add the rice, fry for a few minutes, mixing with meat and vegetables. Pour the rest of the water into the pan and cook for 20 minutes. Add salt and pepper as well as some saffron for colour. Once the paella is seasoned, it be left for 2 minutes at medium-high heat without stirring, until the bottom layer of rice starts to caramelise. Garnish the dish with the strips of red pepper and sprinkle with of rosemary, if you like. Cover the pan and let it rest for 5 minutes before serving. Other Uses for Rice At between 50 and 100 million tonnes of methane a year, rice agriculture is a big source of atmospheric methane, possibly the biggest of man-made methane sources. The warm, waterlogged soil of rice paddies provides ideal conditions for methanogenesis, and though some of the methane produced is usually oxidized by methanotrophs in the shallow overlying water, the vast majority is released into the atmosphere. However, methane emission from worldwide rice agriculture has been well studied in recent years and fairly reliable estimates of global emissions now exist. Emissions from rice paddies can vary hugely during the course of a year. Rice is grown very widely and rates of methane emission may vary greatly between different areas. Differences in average temperature, water depth and the length of time that the rice paddy soil is waterlogged can all result in big regional variations. On average, the rice paddy soil is only fully waterlogged for about 4 months each year. For the rest of the time methanogenesis is generally much reduced and, where the soil dries out sufficiently, rice paddy soil can become a temporary sink for atmospheric methane. Human Impact Clearly, humans are directly responsible for the world's paddy fields and so also for their methane emissions. The expansion of the human population has necessitated increased rice production and also methane emission from this source. There are, though, strategies which may lessen our impact via this greenhouse gas source as outlined below. Potential for control With an increasing world population, reductions in rice agriculture remains largely untenable due to methane emission reduction strategy. However, through a more integrated approach to rice paddy irrigation and fertilizer application, substantial reductions remain possible. Many rice varieties can be grown under much drier conditions than those traditionally employed, with big reductions on methane emission without any loss in yeild. Additionally, there seems great potential for improved varieties of rice, able to yield a much larger crop per area of rice paddy and so allow for a cut in the area of rice paddies, without a cut in rice production. Finally, the addition of compounds such as ammonium sulphate, which favour activity of other microbial groups over that of the methanogens, has proved successful under certain conditions. Renowned researcher, Dr. Lee, emphasizes basic and applied research to provide critical control strategies and technology to counter consequential changes in rice disease incidence and severity resulting from a continual change in cultivars grown, and in cultural practices. While not limited to specific diseases, particular research focus is on rice sheath blight, estimated to cost Arkansas producers alone a minimum of $20-million each year in yield loss. Moreover, rice blast, which frequently rivals or surpasses sheath blight in economic importance is a major concern too. Although erratic from year to year, rice blast has caused tremendous yield losses and has been known to decimate individual fields throughout the Arkansas state. Recent research focus - To control predominate rice diseases, growers currently utilize an integrated control system exploiting useful components of standard disease control methodology including host resistance, cultural manipulation (fertility, flood, tillage) and fungicide applications. Greenhouse and field disease nurseries to evaluate germ plasm reaction to rice diseases, particularly rice blast and sheath blight. Rice quarantine efforts to limit the introduction of new diseases. Newly acquired rice entries are evaluated for potentially useful disease resistance genes. Root zone mediated durable rice blast resistance with specific emphasis on the role of oxygen and ethylene. Potential role and utilization of efficacious systemic rice blast fungicides in drill seed rice culture. Vulnerability of red rice to the rice blast pathogen, the movement of introduced blast resistance genes from white rice to red rice and blast pathogen overwintering in red rice stubble. Definition and quantification of inherent genetic cold tolerance and resistance to seedling diseases with emphasis on the individual role of each in developing cold tolerant disease resistant varieties for very early planting. Much of the research is cooperative with other disciplines and pathologists. Cooperative research efforts include cultivar development, developing new molecular disease markers, evaluation of related Oryza species for useful disease resistance genes, and searching for new resistance genes in Oryza sativa. In Summary - Rice for Life For over half of the world's population, rice is very life itself. It is the grain that has shaped the cultures, diets, and economies of billions of people in Asia. For them, life without rice is simply unthinkable. There is no other substitute. Rice reality Between now and 2020, 1.2 billion new rice consumers will be added to Asia's population alone. Juts feeding these extra people will require the greatest effort in the history of agriculture: rice production will need to be increased by a massive one-third from today's 320-million tons. That means a minimum production of 420-million tons. Producers will have to grow an extra 4-million tons every year, at the very time that rice land is decreasing and the remaining fields appear to be over farmed. Right now, there is barely enough rice to go around. Indeed, in some areas, because of political and economic turmoil, there is insufficient rice production and many people are going hungry. What about tomorrow? Simply put, if we do not start responding to today's cries for help, the future in Asia will be very bleak. Environmental woes Attempting to grow more rice from less land, will not be sustainable. Chemical pesticides are already polluting the rivers, lakes, and our groundwater. Salinity is encroaching inland, and there is less water for irrigation, while g enetic biodiversity is eroding, Air and water pollution are already facts of life in many places. So what kind of environment are our children going to inherit? Could this be the start of Armageddon so terribly described in the Bible? Rhythm of life Rice has been grown in Asia for at least 10,000 years. This important crop has richly influenced the cultures and lives of billions of people in many countries. In times past. the old societies of Asia used rice to dictate the pace of life. That small grain seems to link Heaven and Earth, as well as Gods and mortals. Throughout history, rice dominates customs, beliefs, rituals, and celebrations and even tribulations. As societies become affluent, they are slowly becoming less dependent on rice it seems. As older people pass on, this often means the loss of age-old traditions, customs and legends, all developed around that simple grain of rice. Who will preserve the priceless rice heritage? Teetering on the edge In much of Asia, where rice is the essence of survival, poor people in both cities and rural areas spend half to three-quarters of their income on rice. Keeping rice prices within their means is an absolute must for social, economic, and political stability and for promoting development and reducing poverty. The current Asian economic crisis is a sobering reminder that rice cannot be taken for granted. For Asia, rice sufficiency is the very essence of a healthy and vibrant society. Asia will be prosperous only if it can feed itself. Before time runs out In these financially challenging times, traditional western funding sources for global rice projects and research have been drying up, and the budgets of national rice programs in Asia are inadequate to support long-term research programs on their own. So much remains to be done. Rice research must continue to provide better ways of producing more rice from less land while preserving the fragile environment. Rice farming, if it is to be sustainable for future generations, must be transformed into a respected and economically viable profession. Asians must become more conscious of the importance of rice in their lives. And the priceless rice cultural heritage must also be preserved for the education and enjoyment of posterity. This all represents a massive on going challenge. The magnitude of these endeavors means that no single country or organization can do it alone. Collaboration among diverse partners is imperative if we are to succeed. A massive drive needs to be well coordinated, time-lined, and properly funded. Over 90 per cent of the world's rice is grown and consumed in Asia, and Asians must become responsible for financing rice research and development. A new regional initiative is needed to help keep Asian rice bowls full. The Asia Rice Foundation, which is initiated by Asians, operated by Asians, and targeted at benefiting Asians, is making this happen. Investing in the future We all need to do our part to reduce poverty, prevent further environmental erosion, and ensure a prosperous future for the billions of people in Asia rice societies. Contributing to the Asia Rice Foundation is to invest in a healthy work force and a green environment. Come on, show you care and get involved! What you do today will make a difference in Asia tomorrow and the whole world in the future. 