The Telework/Telecommute Research and Demonstration Project is a three-year national research project operating from Connecticut CTWorks Career Centers providing data to help Congress to decide on funding priorities for veterans with disabilities. There are three organisations that have been chosen by the U.S. Department of Labor Office of Disability Employment Policy to receive funding for this research. The WorkPlace, Inc. is one of them. The project conducts a survey across the nation, and detailed interviews with the employers of both for and non-profit companies including government agencies. The research looks into how each employer has set up options for telecommuting either part time or full time within their organisation. The project looks into the existing telecommuting jobs held by disabled people, particularly veterans, looking at how this works and looking for patterns. Case studies are made of disabled veterans and studies are made of how suited veterans are for telecommuting positions, especially those returning from the Middle East with disabilities. The project has also piloted a Telework Employment Project at the CTWorks Career Center in Bridgeport, helping to match people with disabilities, both veterans and non-veterans, with telecommuting job opportunities and training. The results of the research are issued in a national report providing valuable information for the government, workers and employers. The Centers are a partnership between The WorkPlace, Inc. and the Connecticut Department of Labor, and are operated by Career Resources. There are 3 centers in Bridgeport, Stamford, and Derby that help more than twenty thousand jobseekers each year; offering career information, workshops, occupational skills training opportunities, and links to employers looking for staff. Career Resources, Inc. is a non-profit workforce development organization that has been running successfully for many years and has gained recognition nationwide for its good work helping adults and young people to find jobs and advance their career in the Southwestern Connecticut area. The individuals are supported well with help to develop their skills, and also with personal development and personal finance skills too. Most of the services offered by Career Resources are offered free of charge to both employers and employees. Career Resources run several initiatives, among which are S.T.A.R.S. which stands for Striving Toward Achievement, Renewal and Success. This is a program funded by a grant from the Connecticut Court Support Services Division, that includes both condeling and education to help with the rehabilitation of women referred to the project by the criminal justice system. The Fatherhood Initiative is a nationally certified program that helps non-custodial fathers to find employment, as well as offering counseling and help with parenting skills. This program is also funded by a Connecticut Court Support Services Division grant. Passport to Success is funded by a grant from the Melville Charitable Trust and is aimed at helping people in supported housing get ready for employment and become self sufficient. Another job readiness project organised by Career Resources is STRIVE of Fairfield County. This aims to help culturally and economically disadvantaged jobseekers to succeed in real work world. The Community Network Center is a walk-in information and referral center in the Bridgeport CTWorks office, working in partnership with InfoLine. The Center provides information on a wide range of topics such as housing, food, childcare and transportation. For jobseekers with disabilities the EveryOne Works Center is a highly useful resource offered for free to disabled jobseekers. The facilities and advise offered are tailored specifically for people with disabilities, such as wheelchair accessible tables. Here you can get information on benefits, qualified counselors are on hand to help guide every person individually. All visitors to the center receive a one on one consultation and there are lots of training opportunities. There are computer workshops, job skill workshops and professional development workshops. Sign language interpreters are available once a week, and there are lots of other facilities and services. There's a braille embosser, a CCTV that magnifies, there's computer stations with speech cards. There are printers and scanners to use too. The software is also all tailored for disabled users. Microsoft Office 2000 is available on large screens, Jaws is a screen reader software for the blind and vision-impaired. There's Dragon voice recognition speech-to-text technology, Open Book, a text to speech conversion using a scanner and Zoom Text which is a screen reader and text magnifier for the blind and vision impaired. There's also a Ticket to Work initiative that aims to increase self sufficiency and dependence on benefits by the means of training, advise and counseling. In June 2005, The WorkPlace, Inc. was given a grant from the U.S. Department of Labor in 2005 to work with community and faith-based organisations to start a project called Making It Real in Bridgeport that would work to give employment help to 300 disadvantaged people in Bridgeport. The organisations chosen to partner in this venture were Taste and See Ministries, Refocus Outreach Ministries, JSM Development, New Vision International Community Development Corporation, St. John Family Center and Greater Bridgeport O.I.C. These organisations offered support services to the participants in the project during their transition to employment. Guidance and support was given to the organisations via The Center for Capacity Development, the WorkPlace technical assistance division. Focus was given to three high-growth industries. Hospitality, Office Services and Manufacturing. The project was a success. More than 300 participants enrolled in the project, more than 45 people found employment. A case management system was created to share resources and valuable partnerships with businesses were established. 