When not flying, butterflies generally hold their wings spread out to the side or held together vertically (up over the body); skippers hold their wings spread out or with the forewings held at a different angle than the hindwings; and many moths hold their wings mostly flattened or even roof-like over their backs. Is it possible for a butterfly or moth to have both male and female characteristics? This can happen, although very rare. A butterfly or moth exhibiting this is called a 'gynandromorph.'-- If the wing patterns are different for the sexes, this leads to an animal rather striking in appearance.

How long can butterflies or moths live? When all stages are included, the longest lifespan for certain butterflies and moths will be several years (where most of the time spent in the pupal stages). The absolute shortest life cycles, from egg to adult, are probably around a month or perhaps a little shorter. As for moths, there is not a lot of information that indicates which species are the longest lived as adults. Some of the Sphinx Moths, which are also called Hummingbird or Hawk Moths, family Sphingidae, probably can live for at least two or three months. ,the Giant Silkworm Moth family (the Saturniidae) do not have long lifespans.

Its few species can live into a second week after emergence. As day-flying insects, butterflies are often brightly colored, as are some day-flying moths, to communicate with each other. Night-flying insects, on the other hand, have drab coloration because bright colors are unimportant at night when they can't be seen. One function of colors is to help an insect find a potential mate; colors advertise the species and sex of an individual. Many species are sexually dimorphic ("two forms") because males and females have recognizably different color patterns. If the sexes are dimorphic, then the male is usually the more brightly colored individual, using his brightness to attract mates (the females). Colors may also communicate distastefulness to predators such as birds. Colors can also help a butterfly regulate its own temperature.

Alpine species, for example, often have dark scales near the body to maximize heat absorption. Why do moths (and other nocturnal insects) come to light? In studies done on the sensitivity of moth optical neurons to light, they are found to have an extremely low threshold, meaning that even very low levels of light will allow the moths to "see." Some moths do migrate, needing some cues to direct them and some noctuid moths migrate using the moon as a primary reference point. In fact, every hour, they alter their flight path by 16 degrees to correct for travel of the moon across the sky. Most animals have more than one way to navigate through their environment, and just because they don't necessarily use one all the time doesn't mean they can't. Moths do have functional eyes. H ow many kinds of butterfly are there in the world?

There are around 150,000 species of Lepidoptera have been described worldwide, making this order the second richest group of insects. Of this number, just under 20,000 are butterflies and the remaining130,000+ are moths. The actual number of Lepidoptera in the world is considerably larger (having an estimated number from 250,000 to 400,000), as there are many species in the tropical regions of the world that have yet to be described. GENERAL ESTIMATES AS PER REGION Per regions of the world: *the total butterflies listed for the oriental region represents the number of species for the Oriental and Australian/Oceania regions combined Location equivalent: Australian + Oceania = Australia, New Zealand, Tasmania, and the Islands of the southwestern Pacific/southeastern Indian Oceans (includes Papua New Guinea, Indonesia, etc.) Ethiopian = mainly Africa and parts of the Middle East Nearctic = Canada, United States, and parts of northern Mexico Neotropical = most of Mexico, Central and South America Oriental = mainly warm temperate and tropical regions of southeastern Asia Palearctic = mainly Europe and temperate regions of Asia Butterflies (and skippers) Moths Totals: Australian/Oceania: *18,500 18,500 Ethiopian: 65017,200 20,850 Nearctic: 775 10,850 11,625 Neotropical: 7700 37,00044,700 Palearctic: 1575 20,55022,125 Oriental: 4800*23,50028,300 Totals: 18,500127,60046,100 Notice that the ratio of known moth species to known butterfly species is about 8 to 1, or, in other words, for every butterfly there are about eight moths. However, if you look at the ratios of moths to butterflies in areas where the moths have been more completely studied (Nearctic and Palearctic) the ratio is higher than 10 moths for every known butterfly. The largest moths in the world include the following three , all of which may have wingspans greater than 11 inches (279 mm): the Hercules moth (Coscinoscera hercules) of New Guinea and Australia.

the Great Owlet Moth or Great Grey Witch (Thysania agrippina), which ranges from the southern tip of Texas into South America and can have a total wing area of well over 100 square inches (645 square cm); the Atlas moth (Attacus atlas) of southeast Asia. The Madagascan Moon Moth (Argema mittrei) has enormously long tails on its hindwings. Which species are found over the greatest area in the world? The one factor that is most important in allowing species to be distributed over a large area is the ability of the larvae to either eat a wide variety of food plants or some food plant that is incredibly widespread as well. Perhaps, the most widespread butterfly in the world is the Painted Lady or Thistle Butterfly (Vanessa cardui) , which can be found all throughout much of the world (except parts of South America). This species is also called The Cosmopolitan, because it is practically found everywhere. Its range even includes many of the islands of the New Zealand, Pacific (including Hawaii), and the Malagasy Republic (formerly Madagascar). A closely related butterfly, the Red Admiral (Vanessa atalanta), is found in Asia, Europe, North America, and North Africa.

It is also found in Guatemala, as well as on the Hawaiian Islands. The Monarch (Danaus plexippus) is found over much of North, Central and South America, and is also now established on Hawaii, many of the Pacific Islands, and even Australia. There are many other very widespread butterflies, such as the Cabbage or Small White (or Cabbage Butterfly; Pieris rapae), which is found in most of the Palearctic region (Europe and Asia), northern Africa and Australia. It is also found over most of North America, though it was introduced to North America. The Long-Tailed Pea (Bean/Lucerne) Blue (Lampides boeticus) is found over virtually all of the temperate and tropical areas of the Eastern Hemisphere and also Hawaii (it is absent mainly from North and South America). The Mourning Cloak (Nymphalis antiopa), also called the Camberwell Beauty in England/parts of Europe and Asia, is found in almost the entire Northern Hemisphere (North America, Europe and Asia). As for the moths, the Crimson-speckled Moth (Utetheisa pulchella) is found over almost the entire Eastern Hemisphere (much like Lampides boeticus). Its close relative, the Beautiful Utetheisa or Bella Moth (Utetheisa ornatrix [including bella]) is found over much of North, Central and South America (including the Galapagos Islands), so these two species of Utetheisa have virtually the entire world covered.

The White-Lined Sphinx Moth (Hyles lineata; several subspecies) is found over much of the world as well, with populations on every continent (except Antarctica), and is even found on the Hawaiian islands. The Noctuid genus Heliothis (or two genera Heliothis and Helicoverpa) includes some pest species with broad distribution as well. Similar to the two members of the Tiger Moth genus Utetheisa mentioned above, three species have the whole world covered, one in the eastern hemisphere and two in the western. The Old World Budworm Moth (H. armigera) is found throughout most of Europe, Africa, Asia and Australia, and the Corn Earworm Moth (H.

zea) and the Tobacco Budworm Moth (H. virescens) are found throughout the Americas (even Hawaii for H. zea). A few pest or almost pest species of Noctuid moths are very widespread. The Black Cutworm (Agrotis ipsilon) is established on all continents (except Antarctica) and is also found on Hawaii.

The same can be said for the Beet or Lesser Armyworm (Spodoptera exigua). The Variegated Cutworm (Peridroma saucia) is found in Europe, North Africa, parts of the Middle East, West Asia, North America, and into northern Central America. The Armyworm Moth (Mythimna [formerly Pseudaletia] unipuncta) is found throughout the Americas, on the Galapagos and Hawaiian Islands and Europe. Some smaller pest species are also found virtually worldwide. Two such exampes are the Indian Meal Moth (Plodia interpunctella; pest on a huge range of stored food products) and the Diamond-Back Moth (Plutella xylostella; pest of cabbages and related [Cruciferaceous] foods).

CLOTHES MOTHS SPECIES Three species are found in North America: the Webbing Clothes Moth (Tineola bisselliella) the Casemaking Clothes Moth (Tinea pellionella) the Carpet or Tapestry Moth (Trichophaga tapetzella), all in the moth family Tineidae. The caterpillars of these moths eat a variety of fibers, including wool, fur, hair, and sometimes linen, silk, and cotton; additionally they may also eat leather, lint, dust, paper, and occasionally even certain synthetic fibers.