same mixture as the bricks but without the straw. This same mixture is often used as plaster on the walls, both inside and outside the dwelling. Some cultures used a lime-based cement as plaster. This had the advantaging of offering some protectection against damage from rain.

The other common technique is known as rammed earth building and involves packing the wet materials into a wooden shuttering in one metre square blocks to create a wall. When it is dry the shuttering is removed and the wall part remains. This resulting wall is called pisé and is very commonly found in the south of Morocco. There are a lot of advantages with adobe houses and it's not hard to see why they have been a common type of dwelling for many different people in different areas and why they have been popular not just in the past but even in the modern day. The materials needed to build an adobe dwelling are commonplace and cheap. They are environmentally friendly and sit in harmony with the natural environment. For some though it is regarded as cheap housing and may be looked down on because of this is some regions. Some people living in adobe dwellings would really prefer to live in a proper brick built home.

With adobe being an interesting and traditional type of building material, we are seeing an increase in small hotels being built from it, in an attempt to increase their green credentials and provide holiday accommodation with a difference.

Adobe construction is defined within the International Building Codes of the USA. Although each state has the ability to modify the code to their own requirements, pressed block and rammed earth constructions are usually included so in general, it is legal to build an adobe dwelling, however you must of course check this thoroughly before building such a dwelling. With the high eco credentials of adobe, it is becoming more desirable and more acceptable and these days the building of adobe properties is encouraged in many areas.

You can conduct a test to see if a particular soil is good for adobe construction. Take a sample of the soil and mix with water in a jar or other container that you can see into from the side. Try and saturate the liquid with the soil.

Seal the jar and shake it fast for a good minute. Next sit it down until the contents have settled. If a sediment collects at the bottom of the jar then that is an indicator of a high clay content soil that would be good for making adobe bricks out of, If there is no sediment and just a liquid in the jar, then there is not enough clay and any adobe bricks made from this soil would be too weak. and so when building an adobe dwelling the ground should first be compressed as the weight otherwise could compress the ground beneath unevenly and the walls could crack. Once the ground has been compressed, the footing for the building is dug out and the ground is compressed again.

The depth to which are the footings are dug depends largely on two main factors. The region and the level of ground frost. The footing is usually around 24" and the stem wall 14". This is much larger than a standard type of dwelling but it needs to be because of the extra weight of the adobe bricks compared to the light weight of standard house bricks. The traditional adobe roof is usually made from a mixture of clay soil, sand and water pressed into wooden forms to make rows of bricks. These would then be laid across a support structure of wood and plastered into place with adobe. Metal fencing is often used to allow the weight of the adobe bricks to be spread evenly.

More traditional adobe roofs were often quite flat as the climate featured more sun than precipitation. When building an adobe dwelling, it's important to take into account the local climate. In cool andmoist climates moisture precautions may be needed, such as adding cement to the construction to limit water damage. To affix the roof, wooden or metal beams are assembled across the entire width of the building. The ends of the beams are attached to the tops of the walls. The adobe bricks are then placed on top of these beams.

The roof bricks are usually larger than those used in the construction of the walls. This helps with coverage, but also adds to the thermal protection, helping to create an even temperature all year round. When each brick is laid, an inch thick layer of adobe mortar is added. This adds strength and also creates a barrier against rain. An adobe roof is fire-proof if made from the right materials, so a chimney can easily be added. An adobe chimney is made from stacked adobe bricks. The creation of the of the chimney starts with choosing the location of the hearth, giving consideration to the safety of this location, and then stacking and mortaring bricks to create the chimney. Every dwelling needs windows and doors and these openings are built by adding a lintel above to support the bricks above it.

Often a finish is applied to help protect the adobe walls, both inside and outside the dwelling. Finishes such as mud plaster, stucco and whitewash are all common. They give some protection against water damage but they do need to reapplied occasionally.

These days non-traditional plasters can be used to give a longer lasting protection.

The Pueblo Revival Style is a regional architectural style in South West USA which copies the appearance of traditional adobe dwellings though often modern materials are used such as brick and concrete. The style is inspired by the Pueblos and the Spanish missions in New Mexico. The style first appeared in California with A. C. Schweinfurth, a Boston architect using it for several Californian buildings including a hotel in Ventura which was finished in 1894. The style was also used by president William G. Tight at the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque . One of the projects he used this style for was the remodeling of Hodgin Hall in 1908. All subsequent university buildings feature the Pueblo style to a greater or lesser degree. In the 20s and 30s artist and architects in Santa Fe were looking to establish an identity for their region. In 1957 John Gaw Meem and his committee drafted the Historical Zoning Ordinance, which mandated the use of the Pueblo Style or Territorial Style on all new buildings in central Santa Fe.

This remains in effect to this day and so the Pueblo style is still very prevalent in Santa Fe. The building of these dwellings started to become more popular in the early 1900's and was very popular in the 20s and 30s. It is still used often to this day and is very prevalent in New Mexico. The w alls of these Pueblo revival style buildings are usually stuccoed and painted in earthy colours. For buildings with more than one floor, you'll usually find stepped massing like that at Taos Pueblo. The roofs are flat and often have projecting beams. These projections are purely ornamental and don't serve any purpose.

In dwellings where modern materials are used to imitate adobe instead of actually using adobe itself, the look of adobe is recreated by adding ronded corners, thick weathered looking walls and irregular parapets.

The largest adobe structure ever built was the Bam Citadel. Sadly an earthquake in 2003 caused major damage. Another huge adobe structure is the Huaca del Sol in Peru which is made from 100 million signed bricks.