The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), through the Food Stamp Act of 1977, as amended, provides and outlines for the the process of the operation of the Food Stamp Program in the State of Connecticut. The State of Connecticut Department of Social Services (DSS) has been designated by the USDA to administer the State's FSNE activities and DSS in turn has contracted with UConn and the CT Department of Public Health to design and implement the FSNE projects. Under this contract for the implementation of the Food Stamp Program in Connecticut, the USDA has authorized the University of Connecticut's Department of Nutritional Sciences to administer, design, develop implement and evaluate a Food Stamp Nutrition Education (FSNE) plan based on the following objectives. The partnership with the university is a better way to ensure that the provisions of the contract are implemented in the right manner. Healthy Food : It is essential that the foods covered by the Food Stamp Program should include only the healthy food. This is because allowing unhealthy food to be covered would defeat the purpose of providing nutritious food intake to those who otherwise, will not be able to afford. FSNE program participants will demonstrate increased knowledge and skills needed to choose healthy foods after completion of FSNE activities.

Physical Activity : The program also encourages a balanced way of living. This can be achieved if there is enough number of exercises and suggested physical activities which the participants can do in order to achieve the desired result of having a healthy body at the end of becoming a beneficiary of the Food Stamp Program. FSNE participants will demonstrate increased knowledge and skill needed balance dietary intake with physical activity after completion of FSNE activities. Fruit and Vegetable Consumption : The Food Stamp Program recognizes the importance of having sufficient intake of vegetables and fruits. Balanced diet will never be complete without the presence of vegetables and fruits. Thus, the management of the Food Stamp Program also encourages having the two sources of vitamins and minerals to be included in the program. FSNE participants will increase their intake and variety of fruits and vegetables after completion of FSNE activities.

Resource Management : Any program for any cause will never run without sufficient resources and funds to run the projects embedded in the program. FSNE participants will demonstrate increase knowledge and skills in food resource management after completion of FSNE activities. Food Safety : It is also important that the food to be included in the program is prepared with the observance of sanitary measures. FSNE participants will demonstrate increased food safety knowledge and skills after completion of FSNE activities.

To meet the objectives of the Food Stamp Program, the University of Connecticut's FSNE project for 2006-2007 includes five main programs. These programs helped to ensure that the goals of the program will be achieved and will be done in an effective and efficient manner. The first project is the Food Stamp Connections Program FoodLink, Husky Nutrition, Husky Reads, Husky Community Nutrition, and Husky Sport) The second project is the Food Security Program. Food Security Program aims at ensuring that the food served will be clean and appropriate to what the beneficiaries need. The third project implemented by the University of Connecticut is the Hispanic Family Nutrition Program. This program aimed at being able to cater to the specific needs of the people who have Hispanic blood. The fourth project is called the 4H Summer and Year Round Nutrition Education Program.

With this project, the people get knowledge on how to avail of the services and what types of food should be prioritized in order to become healthy and productive by the benefit of the program. The fifth project is called the Program Administration. This project is used to teach how the program should be implemented. This includes teaching how to get funds and allocate them to various branches of the Food Stamp Program.

The program is well-supported by the departnments of the government because it was actively promoted by the president. President Bush called for the extension of benefits in the FY 2003 budget proposal. Even after the desired length of time to keep the project, the president even extended the time limit.

The proposal, which became law as part of the 2002 Farm Bill, restores food stamp eligibility to many legal immigrants who had previously lost eligibility. Beginning April 1, 2003, immigrants who have lived in the U.S. for five years as qualified aliens, and who are otherwise eligible, will have food stamp benefits restored. Thus, the Food Stamp Program also extended its scope when it was opened even to immigrant who were not born as already citizens of the United States. "Food stamps are improving the nutrition of low-income families across the country," uttered by the USDA Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services Eric Bost. "We are committed to educating legal immigrants, seniors and others about the food stamp program and benefits that may be available to them."

This is a liberal approach of implementing the programs of the state where other people from other states are also welcomed to apply and avail of the benefits of the Food Stamp Program. There is a specific department in the government that caters to the Food Stamp Program. The Food Stamp Program is administered by the USDA Food and Nutrition Service. The Food Stamp Program is the cornerstone of the federal food assistance programs, and provides crucial support to needy households and to those making the transition from welfare to work.

For the people who do not have enough income, the Food Stamp Program is indeed a big help for daily survival of the family - the head of the family who earns for the gorup and also to the members who are dependents of the head of the family The program enables low-income families to buy nutritious food with coupons and electronic benefits transfer cards. Food stamp recipients spend their benefits to buy eligible food in authorized retail food stores. Not all kinds of food are covered by the Food Stamp Program. Regulation is necessary to ensure that the money goes to nutritious food needed by the beneficiaries.

Applying for Food Stamps It is not the duty of the government to look for people who will be beneficiaries of the Food Stamp Program. People who think that they have the qualifications required will have to apply to the benefactor government. To receive food stamp benefits, the head of a household should apply at your local Social Services office.

It is the head of the household who is mandated to process the application to avoid duplicity of family members trying to avail of the benefits of the program. If this is not possible, an authorized representative may apply for you or you may apply by mail. Usually, an authorized representative would also be part of the household who has more access or knowledge to apply for the program. The applicant is responsible for any over-issuance resulting from false information. Household circumstances discussed during the interview are confidential. The government staff who conduct interviews with the applicants has the professional duty to not reveal the information to people who do not have any business regarding the data gathered. If no family member can come to the office or send a representative, a telephone interview or home visit may be arranged. The lenient way of enforcing the system is to ensure that the program is able to help those who are really in need.

This option is available to applicants who are age 65 or older, those who are disabled, or those with a hardship preventing them from coming into the office. To ensure the authenticity of the personality of the applicants, they must provide proof of identity, residency, income and rent or mortgage payments. Social Security numbers must also be provided. The provision of these necessary documents would also help fixing the files of the government. More information on the items that an applicant must bring application interview will be known upon a general inquiry to the relevant government office. Applicants for both SSI and Food Stamps may apply for both programs in a single interview at local Social Security offices if all persons in the household have needs covered by SSI. The joint application is allowed to make applications convenient to the applicants who usually do not have overwhelming means to spend for these things.

Applicants may receive food stamp benefits within 30 days of their application. Some adults without dependents can only receive food stamps for three months out of a 36-month period unless they are employed or performing work in exchange for assistance. Application Applicants can apply for the Food Stamp Program by visiting the official website of the Food Stamp Program and filling out the information on the website. In addition to completing the form, applicants must still have an interview with a benefits specialist at their local office and also provide required verifications.

Food Stamp Employment and Training Program The officers behind the program should be properly trained in order for them to become good servants of the beneficiaries of the program. The Food Stamp Employment and Training Program is a program which has been designed to promote self-sufficiency through employment for mandatory food stamp applicants and recipients. The Services for the training include: job readiness, job search, job retention and job advancement training provided via workshops for up to two months a year.

There are several places where a person can enroll himself for a training. The Food Stamp Employment and Training Program operates in Converse, Laramie, Natrona, Park, Sheridan and Sweetwater Counties which covers the cities of Douglas, Glenrock, Cheyenne, Casper, Cody, Powell, Sheridan and Rock Springs. Job search training and support will be provided to participants for thirty (30) hours per week for two months (60 days) as funding is available. There are various perks which can be gained from attending the program. Participants will receive training in job seeking skills including preparing applications and resumes, effective interviewing, labor market research and job retention skills. Aside from the basic functions which can be learned, training for the Food Stamp Program may also include life skills to prepare participants for employment.

The training also recognizes the fact that this could be the career path of people who enroll, especially for social workers. Training could also provide participants with tools to develop career plans and progress in the world of work. To ensure that the person who participates in the training would yield to postive results, there will be evaluations and personal assessments for the performance from beginning to end. Segments may include opportunities for job seekers to assess themselves, work as a team, improve communication, practice creativity and develop habits that will assist them in progressing in their employment if they are underemployed or employed part-time.

The programs for training also provides for the opportunity to develop and possibly start a business on training in the future time. Job seekers who are interested in starting their own business will benefit from training in entrepreneurial skills to assist them in attaining their goals. Participants nearing the end of job search training who have not been successful in obtaining unsubsidized employment will be referred and recommended for placement services through the Workforce Investment Act Program or to the Department of Workforce Services' Vocational Rehabilitation Division for assessment and possible training.

In this scheme, the skills and knowledge that have been learned from the training program will still be useful and can be use for the benefit of the aim. Comprehensive details about the Food Stamp Program are available on the program's website. It can easily be Googled. For more Food Stamp information and where to apply for assistance, please visit the Wyoming Department of Family Services Food Stamp Program website.