Often imitated, but never duplicated, Neil Young's unique musical songwriting and playing style has influenced a generation of artists from Booker T. and the MG's to Pearl Jam to Wilco. From alt-country to grunge, punk to alternative, rockabilly to heavy metal, blues to synth, a musical genre label will never apply to Neil and his music. An observer once wrote that "Young has always been a lone wolf - a musical chameleon, who changes his musical style and his band as often as most people change their shirt." Crazy Horse bandmate "Poncho" Sampedro referred to Young's musical polygamy as "a fact of life."

His varied career has carried him through experiments with swing, jazz, rockabilly, blues, and electronic music. However, he is best known for the work which falls into the categories of either acoustic folk-esque rock, or electric-charged hard rock. Young's first solo record, Neil Young (November 1968), received mixed reviews. Despite containing some of Young's staple songs, including "The Loner" , Young dismissed the album i n a 1970 interview, saying it was"overdubbed rather than played".

Three musicians from a band called The Rockets joined Young for his next album. Danny Whitten on guitar, Billy Talbot on bass guitar, and Ralph Molina on drums took the name Crazy Horse and recorded Everybody Knows This Is Nowhere in May 1969 under the artist accreditation "Neil Young with Crazy Horse". The album was recorded in just two weeks, and opens with one of Young's most familiar songs, "Cinnamon Girl" . Two other s, "Cowgirl in the Sand" and "Down by the River" , feature lengthy jams that showcase Young's idiosyncratic guitar soloing. Young reportedly wrote all three songs on the same day, while nursing a fever of 103 F (39.5 C) in bed. Everybody Knows This Is Nowhere and Y oung joined Crosby, Stills and Nash, reuniting with Stephen Stills, s hortly after the album's release . O riginally Y oung was offered a position as a sideman. He agreed to join only as a full member, and the group was renamed Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young.

The quartet debuted in Chicago on August 16, 1969, and later performed at the famous Woodstock Festival.

Neil Young stayed with the group for five of the group's remaining 14 albums. The Double Lives of Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young was somewhat different in that each of the members recorded solo albums at the height of their success as a group.

It was as early as 1970 that Young released his third solo album, After the Gold Rush , which featured a young Nils Lofgren; Stephen Stills; and Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young's bassist; Greg Reeves. Some of the early tracks were recorded with Crazy Horse, but Young dismissed them early in the sessions. The album contains some of Young's best known work, and was a commercial breakthrough. Its tracks are characterized by dream-like lyrics that cover a range of subjects; including drugs; interpersonal relationships, environmental concerns, and a controversial and acerbic condemnation of racism in "Southern Man" .

Young left the group in 1976, though he returned in 1988 to record an album after Crosby finished a jail term on drug and weapons charges, and thereby fulfill a promise Young had made to record with them again if Crosby could beat his drug addiction. Each of band's members still performs as a solo artist and Both the Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young and Crosby, Stills and Nash configurations have maintained fairly regular tour schedules since 2000.

T onight's the Night was written in 1973, while Young was still d eeply affected by the drug-induced deaths of Whitten and roadie Bruce Berry, and t he album's dark tone and rawness caused Reprise to delay the release. It was only on Young's insistence that it was released two years later, at which time i t received mixed reviews. The album is now regarded as a landmark album, and thought by some to be a precursor to punk rock . In Young's own opinion, it was the closest he ever came to art.