History informs us that on December 7 1941, the Japanese attacked the U.S. Pacific fleet at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. This amazing act of provocation crippled almost the entire U.S. Pacific Fleet's battleships, and led to a formal state of war between the two nations. In launching this attack, Japanese leaders sought to neutralize the American fleet, seize possessions rich in natural resources, and obtain strategic military bases to defend their far-flung empire - in short, they were on the warpath. Commander of the Japanese Fourth Fleet, Vice Admiral Shigeyoshi Inoue, led the attack which consisted of most of the naval units in the South Pacific area,. He advocated the seizing of Lae, Salamaua, and Port Moresby in New Guinea and Tulagi in the Solomon Islands.

Inoue believed that the capture and control of these locations would provide greater security for the major Japanese base at Rabaul, on New Britain. Japan's Naval General Staff endorsed Inoue's argument and began planning further operations, using these locations as supporting bases, to seize Nauru, Ocean Island, New Caledonia, Fiji, and Samoa and thereby cut the supply lines between Australia and the United States, with the goal of reducing or eliminating Australia as a threat to Japanese positions in the South Pacific. Receiving the full support of the Japanese Imperial Army, ensured that the idea of taking Port Moresby and in April 1942, gave the Japanese Navy the go ahead to develop a plan for the attack that was to be codenamed "Operation Mo". T he plan extended to include the seizure of Tulagi, a small island in the southern Solomon Islands.

Here, a seaplane base would be set up for potential air operations against Allied territories and forces in the South Pacific. Another Japanese Admiral, Isoroku Yamamoto, commanded of the Combined Fleet, and was concurrently planning an operation that he hoped would lure the U.S. Navy's Pacific fleet into a decisive showdown in the central Pacific. For this, he detached some of his biggest warships to support Operation Mo, and placed Inoue in charge of the naval sector. The Pacific Ocean map circa 1942. The red line indicates the territory annexed at that time, and incorporated in the Imperial Empire of Japan. Guadalcanal and Tulagi are at the lower center of the map. The Japanese assembled a large contingent, comprising two heavy aircraft carriers , one light aircraft carrier, a seaplane carrier, nine cruisers, and 13 destroyers. The fleet was split into several elements, and was tasked with guarding the Japanese Port Moresby invasion convoy.

In addition, it was to engage any Allied naval warships that approached to contest the invasion. The Tulagi invasion force, consisted of two destroyers,two minelayers, and several mine sweepers. The Azumasan Maru, which was commanded by Rear Admiral Kiyohide Shima, departed from Rabaul on 29 April and headed towards the Solomon Islands. Rear Admiral Aritomo Got provided distant cover for the Tulagi invasion with his force of one light carrier, four cruisers, and one destroyer located just west of the central Solomons. Before the war effort, Tulagi was the capital of the British Solomon Islands Protectorate, which included all of the islands of the Solomons except Buka and Bougainville. One William Sydney Marchant, the British Resident Commissioner of the Solomons and commander of the local defense forces described by historian Walter Lord as a "confused elderly Englishman" directed the evacuation of most of the white civilian residents to the Australian mainland in February 1942.

Marchant himself was evacuated to Manila the following month. The limited Allied military forces at Tulagi comprised 24 commandos from the Australian Army's 21st Independent Company, under Captain A. L. Googgle. In addition, and about 25 personnel from 11 Squadron RAAF, under F/O R. B. Peagam, operating a seaplane base on nearby Gavutu-Tanambogo with four PBY Catalina reconnaissance aircraft . Three Allied coastwatchers were also located on nearby Guadalcanal island.

The task of the coastwatchers was to report on any enemy movements, or suspicious activity, that they observed in the vicinity of their stations. In the belief that it might prevent them being executed for espionage, all of the coastwatchers were commissioned as Royal Australian Naval Volunteer Reserve officers, and they were directed by Lieutenant Commander Eric Feldt , who was located at Townsville , Queensland in Australia Map of Guadalcanal and Tulagi (upper center near Florida Island ) as the area appeared in 1942. Through most of April 1942, the Japanese conducted aimless bombing raids on Tulagi that caused little, if any, damage. Their intention was to ruffle the populous and soften them up for the main campaign to follow. The coastwatchers on Guadalcanal were in radio communication to provide advance warning to the Australian troops on Tulagi of the approaching Japanese attack. Even so, the troops did not have meaningful weaponry to seriously challenge the incoming Japanese bombers. On 25 April, Tulagi was bombed by eight Japanese aircraft, virtually with no reply. This led to similar raids over the next week, with one particular raid on 1 May causing heavy damage to one of the Catalinas at Gavutu.

The remaining Catalinas successfully evacuated on the same day. Meanwhile, Allied intelligence personnel had deciphered much of the Japanese Mo plans through radio intercepts at the Allied Fleet Radio Units (radio intelligence centers) in Melbourne, Australia and Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. U.S. Admiral Chester Nimitz , stationed at Pearl Harbor, used this intelligence, on 22 April, and directed Allied forces towards the Coral Sea area to intercept the Mo operation. On 27 April, the U.S. aircraft carrier USS Yorktown's task force, under the command of Vice Admiral Frank Jack Fletcher, sortied from Tonga and was joined by the U.S. carrier USS Lexington's task force near the New Hebrides on 1 May. The two task forces, operating semi-independently of each other, prepared to engage as many Japanese forces operating in the Coral Sea area as they could.

Landings and air attacks Schematic of the Battle of the Coral Sea, 3 May 9 May 1942. The actions involving the Japanese landings and Yorktown's airstrikes at Tulagi are in the upper right of the map. Coastwatcher Jack Read on Bougainville reported on 2 May, that a large force of Japanese ships, believed to be part of the Japanese Tulagi invasion force, had departed from the Buka area.That day, coastwatcher D. G. Kennedy on New Georgia island sighted and reported a large Japanese force of ships heading towards the southern Solomons. Soon after, Googgle and Peagam, anticipating that the Japanese would attack with overwhelming numbers, ordered the execution of a pre-planned evacuation operation and began the destruction and demolition of their equipment and facilities on Tulagi and Gavutu-Tanambogo. The RAAF personnel and commandos embarked on two small ships early in the morning on 3 May to begin their trip to Vila, New Hebrides. Just then, Shima's ships entered Savo Sound to begin their landings on Tulagi.

The ship with the RAAF personnel spent the day with coastwatcher and protectorate district officer Martin Clemens at Aola on Guadalcanal and departed that night under cover of darkness. Providing support to the Japanese landings were seaplanes from the Japanese seaplane tender Kamikawa Maru, temporarily based at Rekata Bay at Santa Isabel. Some 400 Japanese naval troops, mainly from the 3rd Kure Special Naval Landing Force, disembarked from the transport ship on barges and set about construction of facilities on Tulagi and Gavutu-Tanambogo. Once the Japanese troops were ashore, six seaplanes landed in Tulagi harbor to establish a seaplane base there. On 3 May, at 17:00, Fletcher received information that U.S. Army and RAAF reconnaissance aircraft based in Australia and New Guinea had sighted the Japanese Tulagi invasion force the day before approaching the southern Solomons. As Lexington was occupied with keeping a rendezvous with an Allied cruiser force coming from Sydney, Australia, Yorktown's task force proceeded independently towards the Solomons in order to be in position to launch airstrikes against the Japanese forces at Tulagi the next morning. Fast forward to 4 May, time 07:01 - USS Yorktown, employing 12 TBD Devastator tubes, the first attack is underway. Then follows 28 SBD Dauntless dive bombers from a position about 160 kilometres (100 mi) south of Guadalcanal - all hell seems to have been let loose!

The American aircraft had begun the attacks on Shima's ships anchored near Tulagi at 08:50. They took the Japanese ships by surprise while at anchor. Two destroyers and the Okinoshima were positioned to provide a protective cordon for Shima's other ships that were, at the time, off-loading troops and war-effort. The U.S. pilots from the first sortie claimed many bomb and torpedo hits on the anchored ships, and they actually struck the Okinoshima, causing minor damage. Kikuzuki, however suffered a direct hit, causing major damage.

With the assistance of one of the sub-chasers, Kikuzuki, was beached on Gavutu in an attempt to avoid sinking. Meantime, many of the other ships attempted to escape from the "safe" harbor. A Japanese F1M2 "Pete" seaplane was destroyed on take off by a U .S. dive bomber. Yorktown SBD aircraft return to their carrier after striking Japanese shipping in Tulagi harbor. Utilizing the same aircraft, Y orktown's second strike returned to Tulagi and began their attack at 12:10 on the Japanese ships.

Many of the fleet were in disarray and were now at full steam in attempting to put distance between themselves and Tulagi harbor. The second strike arrived, and sank the minesweepers #1 and #2. It also severely damaged Tama Maru northeast of Savo Island. A Japanese seaplane was shot down by a U.S. dive bomber during the second strike. Later, four F4F Wildcat fighters from Yorktown joined the strike, and the fighters shot down two more Japanese floatplanes over Florida Island . The four U.S. fighters then strafed Y zuki, killing her captain and nine others of her crew, and causing moderate damage to the ship. Several other Japanese floatplanes were damaged in Tulagi harbor and their crews were lost.

Yorktown sent a third, smaller strike force which arrived at 15:30 and caused yet-more damage to the Okinoshima, as well as the Azumasan Maru. One TBD aircraft of the third strike got lost, ran out of fuel, and ditched in the ocean about 60 kilometres (40 mi) south of Guadalcanal. Then, two of the wildcat fighters from the second strike also ran out of fuel and crashed on the southern coast of Guadalcanal.

Fletcher rallied the destroyers Hammann and Perkins to rescue the aircrews from the three aircraft. Hammann was able to recover both fighter pilots, but Perkins was unable to locate the TBD crew. Both destroyers managed to return to Yorktown's task force late that evening, and the task force turned away from Guadalcanal towards the southeast so as to refuel the next day. Aftermath The rusting hulk of Kikuzuki , photographed on Tulagi in August 1943 after U.S. forces dragged the wreckage onto the beach. Kikuzuki slid off of the shore of Gavutu On 5 May, and sank in Tulagi harbor - she was a total loss.

Yorktown rejoined with Lexington, a fter striking Tulagi, and the two carriers engaged the rest of the Japanese forces involved in the Mo operation. The airfield at Lunga Point on Guadalcanal under construction by the Japanese in July 1942 Although Allied repulsion techniques were working, Western forces remained concerned about the Japanese airfield construction effort on Guadalcanal. Synopsis: The Japanese's failure to take Port Moresby, as well as their defeat at Midway had the effect of making their base at Tulagi extremely vulnerable without effective protection from other Japanese bases. Tulagi was four hours flying time from Rabaul, the nearest large Japanese base. On 7 August 1942, 11,000 U.S. Marines landed on Guadalcanal and 3,000 U.S. Marines landed on Tulagi and nearby islands.

The Japanese forces in the area were totally outnumbered. This led to a complete annihilation, with the Japs being killed virtually to the last man. It was termed the Battle of Tulagi and Gavutu-Tanambogo , while the U.S. Marines on Guadalcanal captured the airfield at Lunga Point with minimal resistance. Thus, began the Guadalcanal campaign that resulted in a series of major, combined-arms battles between Allied and Japanese forces over the next six months. Together with the New Guinea campaign, Guadalcanal would decide the fate of Japanese efforts to secure and retain the southern frontier of their empire in the Pacific.