Recreation While purists may question human recreation in Yellowstone, Rangers appreciate that this monumental conservation effort must remain useful to the greater community, and earn an income too. Hence Old Faithful is one of the most popular recreation areas in the States. In fact, at least two million tourists have visited the Park almost every year since the 1960's. In high-demand summer times, close to four-thousand employees work for companies holding Yellowstone National Park concessions. These help manage nine hotels and lodges - that's a total of 2,238 hotel rooms and cabins. The employees also oversee gas stations, stores and most camping grounds too.

A further eight hundred employees work either permanently or seasonally for the National Park Service itself. Yellowstone is in the midst of a long term road-upgrade project, which is hampered by a short work season and has seen access to some attractions impaired. In the winter, all roads (except the route which enters from Gardiner, Montana, and extends to Cooke City, Montana ) are closed to wheeled traffic.There is no public transport available inside the Park, although several concessionaires offer guided motorized transport. In the winter, they operate snowmobile and snow coach tours. If visiting in the summer, bear in mind that facilities in the Old Faithful, Canyon and Mammoth Hot Springs area can become exceptionally busy, especially when compounded by road construction.

There are nine National Park Service visitor centers and museums. Moreover the Service also is responsible for maintaining historical structures and another 2,000 plus-minus buildings. These include Old Faithful Inn built in 1903, and the entire Fort Yellowstone - Mammoth Hot Springs historic area. Campfire programs, guided walks and other interpretive presentations are available at numerous locations in the summer, and on a limited basis during other seasons too.

Camping and Hiking Camping is permitted at a dozen camping grounds with over two-thousand stands. Overflow facilities are available in adjacent National Forests - and in Grand Teton National Park too. Bear in mind that back-country campsites are accessible by foot or horseback only, and require a specific permit issued in advance. Although there are more than a thousand miles of hiking trails, Yellowstone is not considered to be a good destination for mountaineering. This is on account of the instability of the volcanic rock which predominates. Those with pets must keep them on a leash at all times, and not move beyond areas near roadways, and front-country areas such as drive-in campgrounds. Wooden and paved trails have been constructed to ensure visitor safety around thermal features - most with handicapped accessibility.

The National Park Service maintains a year-round clinic at Mammoth Hot Springs, and provides emergency services throughout the year. Hunting Hunting is not permitted at Yellowstone, although it is allowed in the surrounding National Forests in season. Fishing is popular everywhere. Just remember that a Yellowstone Park fishing license is required to angle in any Park waters. Moreover, many of these are strictly for fly fishing only, with native fish species restricted to catch-and-release. Boats are banned on waterways and creeks, except for a single five-mile stretch along the Lewis River between Lewis and Shoshone Lakes, and this is only for non-motorized craft.

Many restrictions, however Yellowstone Lake itself is a marina destination second to none. In days gone past, visitors were allowed (nay even encouraged) to feed the bears. The animals had learned to beg for food, and visitors welcomed the chance to get their pictures taken with them. This led to numerous injuries to humans. In 1970, Park officials changed their policy and began a vigorous program to educate the public on the dangers of close contact with the bears, and to eliminate opportunities for the dangerous creatures to find food in campgrounds and trash collection areas.

The number of human injuries and deaths has taken a significant drop, and today visitors are in less danger accordingly.