Successful Raised Bed Garden Design Raised bed garden design proves to be quite easy so long as you take a few important points into consideration. Planning is always the key to success. Th following tips and ideas will help you to create a design that will always work.

In case you are seriously considering to have a raised bed garden, then it is worth making the effort to plan it on paper first. This will also help you to calculate the quantities of different materials that you will need. This will further help you in avoiding problems while the construction is going on. The key points that should be taken into consideration while designing a raised bed garden are: Sun and Shade This refers to your garden's orientation with respect to the position of sun. In case walking frame or wheelchair access is important, then allow pathways of about 1.2m as this space will give you enough room for manoeuvring it safely. The pathways should have a smooth and level concrete surface or non-slip paving stones that allow the ease of movement. Access to Water Supply This is very important in case you are planning to grow vegetables or any other thirsty plants due to the fact that raised beds have a tendency to be free draining.

Handy water supply will surely make watering much less of a chore but at the same time you should also consider about installing an irrigation system. Size of Raised Beds Gardening is made easier with the help of raised beds as it effectively raises different parts of your garden to a working height the is convenient for you. A width of 1.2m or 4ft is enough for you to access the raised bed from both the sides. Those beds which can be reached only from one side have to be narrower as compared to those which can be reached from both the sides. Length is more a matter of personal choice and it depends on what you wish to grow in the beds. In case of a vegetable garden, it is likely that you will be working more intensively. So the beds should not be so long that it will become frustrating to walk around to the other side of the bed. In case of an ornamental garden this is generally less of a problem and so you can be much more flexible about the design.

Construction materials Raised beds can easily be made from variety of materials that suit both your garden aas well as your budget. Wood has proved to be an excellent material for making raised beds and it fits in well with most of the garden designs.To keep the costs down you can easily use reclaimed timber but just make sure that the same hasn't been treated with any toxic preservatives that may leach into the soil. The simplest form of wooden beds can be made from sturdy planks of wood and these can last for several years before any replacement is required. A solution that is more permanent is to make use of untreated railway sleepers that look attractive and at the same time these are solid enough for being stacked high without becoming unstable for a long time. Concrete blocks, bricks and stone are excellent materials for making raised beds.

Although these are more expensive as compared to wood, their strength as well as durability permit you to raise the beds to any height you wish and at the same time easily create designs, tiers and curves that are visually interesting. Try to match the stone or brick to your house in order to create a pleasing design. Once again, you can easily save money by making use of secondhand or recycled materials. If the only thought of making your own raised beds horrifies you, then there's a good news for you as you can buy raised bed kits that are ready to use. These kits are generally available in an interlocking modular form that allows you to easily plan as well as to create interesting designs.