The Syd Barrett Documentary The Syd Barrett and Pink Floyd split is more extensively reviewed as a documentary released on DVD on 24 March 2003. Produced by Otmoor Productions in 2001 as part of the BBC's Omnibus series and originally titled: Syd Barrett: Crazy Diamond (in the US, a slightly modified version aired as the last episode of VH1's Legends series in January, 2002). John Edginton directed, and the film includes interviews with all the Pink Floyd members - Roger Waters, David Gilmour, Nick Mason and Rick Wright - plus the "fifth Pink Floyd", Bob Klose, who had also left the band in 1965. The documentary film includes rare early television appearances of Pink Floyd and some 16mm home movies. Then, in 2006 a new "definitive edition DVD" was produced in the UK and Europe in which the full unedited interviews conducted by the director with Pink Floyd were now disclosed, together with the original documentary footage.

Plot Syd Barrett is the focus of the film, in which he is shown as the lead guitarist of the early-Pink Floyd. Syd created their unique psychedelic sound and most of the band's early songs, including the singles "Arnold Layne" and "See Emily Play" and much of their first album "The Piper at the Gates of Dawn". Syd Barrett passed into legend and rock folklore when he parted with Pink Floyd in 1968.

Two extraordinary, but erratic solo albums followed and then Syd disappeared from music altogether (amid rumors of a drug-induced breakdown). The Pink Floyd and Syd Barrett Story includes contributions from Humble Pie drummer Jerry Shirley. He played on Syd Barrett's two solo albums, The Madcap Laughs, and Barrett, as well as at Barrett's final London concert on 6 June 1970. which also included David Gilmour. After playing just four number, Barrett abruptly left the stage. Looking on were bassist Jack Monck, who played at Syd's last ever public concert in 1972 at the Cambridge Corn Exchange, as well as producer Joe Boyd who produced Arnold Layne. Also in the sidelines looking on was photographer Mick Rock who photographed Barrett for The Madcap Laughs cover, and artist Duggie Fields who shared an apartment in London's Earls Court with Barrett in 1968 and witnessed his changing mental state at close hand.

According to his sister, Barrett actually watched the documentary when it was broadcast on the BBC. He apparently found it "too loud", although he did enjoy seeing Mike Leonard, who he referred to as his "teacher". He also enjoyed hearing "See Emily Play" again.

A warm welcome to you from In the Flesh . We are a UK-based Pink Floyd tribute band with a six-piece line-up comprising some of the West Country's finest musicians. Although only launched during early 2007, they have already received glowing praise for their accurate rendition of some of Pink Floyd's classic numbers. In the Flesh's attention to detail sets them apart from other PF tribute bands and this is reflected in the warm response from their rapidly expanding fan base. This is a tribute show for all true Floyd fans, with a hugely impressive sound and light rig and a performance of more than two hours, featuring some of Floyd's timeless music. Here are some extracts from the band's online guest book, from people who have been to see In the Flesh . SCOTLAND 2009 February sees us up in Scotland for three back to back shows culminating in the Laser Spectacular in Glasgow. The combination of classic Pink Floyd tracks and mind blowing laser light show will be an event not to be missed.

Saturday 28th Feb 2009 IN THE FLESH present a PINK FLOYD SOUND & LASER LIGHT SPECTACULAR at the - GLASGOW ROYAL CONCERT HALL Recreating the Pink Floyd concert experience and taking it to the highest degree possible, In The Flesh present a live reproduction of Floyd best known works from the psychedelic strains of The Piper at the Gates of Dawn through to the multi-million selling albums Meddle - The Dark Side of the Moon - Wish You Were Here and The Wall. Expect more than a few surprises in this three hour show. This six piece band have toured the UK to glowing praise for their attention to detail with a hugely impressive sound complimented by saxophones and backing vocalists.

Their lighting rig also features the trademark CIRCULAR PROJECTION SCREEN and for the FIRST TIME EVER, a mindblowing LASER LIGHT SHOW! This will be an amazing show for all Floyd fans and is not to be missed! NEW LASER SPECTACULAR SHOW confirmed for - ROYAL CONCERT HALL - NOTTINGHAM on Saturday June 20th 2009 GLENN POVEY MANAGEMENT. We are pleased to announce that Glenn Povey has taken over the sole management of the band.

Glenn was the founder of the highly regarded Pink Floyd fan-magazine Brain Damage which he edited between 1985 and 1993. He was also responsible for launching the career of the Australian Pink Floyd Show, a band he subsequently managed for two years following their debut UK show at the first International Pink Floyd Fan-Convention, an event he organized at the old Wembley Stadium Conference Center in 1993. An incurable Pink Floyd fan, he has also written, compiled and researched two books on the band: Pink Floyd: In The Flesh (Bloomsbury, 1997) and Echoes: The Complete History of Pink Floyd (Mind Head, 2007), which has now been translated into six languages.