And then there's the famous Singapore Hotel that spawned a copycat in Dubai. We all know opening a hotel is invariably a gamble with investors' money. Perhaps that's the connection? I'll take a chance myself and leap right in.

Raffle, Tombola, Bingo Take Your Pick When I was growing up and gambling was officially illegal, the Church in Harrisonburg, Virginia my parents dragged me to on Sundays needed extra money, after the steeple threatened to fall down. The pastor called an urgent meeting. The husband of a congregant she'd dragged along because he was in business (and businesspeople are supposed to be full of good ideas about making money) called out "what about a Raffle?" "I don't want to hear a thing about it," the Reverend said. And officially he didn't.

"What's a Raffle," I asked my parents the next day as we were having breakfast. "Is it some kind of orgy?" I was a precocious kid at age twelve. "Where does he hear these things from?" my father asked as he smashed his soft-boiled egg into a dozen pieces. "I think it's time you took the boy aside and taught him a few manly things," my mother answered.

The next day my father asked me to go fishing with him. My alarm bells started ringing instantly, because he never did that before. After we had cast our lines into an unlikely pool my father swore blind was overstocked with fish, he looked at me and said "Son, it's time we had a chat".

Singapore lies at the southern tip of Malaysia across the straits from Borneo. It is a tourist mecca that benefits from some of the most lovely tourist attractions anywhere on earth. Here curious travelers also come to appreciate raw beauty, unknown secrets and unique festivals from all over the world. Culture vultures flourish in a haven that's also a paradise for hagglers. Orchard Street could easily vanish in the Las Vegas landscape while the Arab Quarter symbolizes the essence of Islam's Mosques. Shops in Little India offer a contrasting taste of Indian culture, while Old Colonial Singapore and its grand hotels maintains the City's claim to be a fast-paced lively business hub.

The months go by to the sound of a blessed confusion of events as religions blend side-by-side that are at loggerheads elsewhere. February is Thaipusam Month, April heralds the Singapore Food Festival over Easter, the Great Singapore Sale's in June and December welcomes the Nativity and Santa Claus.

Raffles Hotel, Dubai With all this historic panache and style it's hardly surprising that the Raffles brand has spread so far around the world. Perhaps the splendid edifice they've just completed in the Emirates Dubai and that we review this week is the Romeo to Singapore's Juliet?

A touch of magic greets the weary visitor like a pyramid with lights aglow. At night, the unique shape attracts visitors like fireflies dancing around an eternal flame. Stylishly flared guest rooms are conveniently located near both Dubai International Airport in Wafi City and the Wafi Mall itself, and all conveniently within the greater City too. Champagne awaits each visitor as they step into their impeccable air conditioned accommodations. If it's in the evening after dinner (or earlier by request) the turn down service will have already visited and left gourmet Arab treats behind like chocolate eclairs and French Champagne. Perhaps a sweet liqueur on the moonlit balcony before you retire to sleep in lover's arms? Step out onto your private balcony and savor the sights of Dubai. Afterwards, why not step out into Raffles Sky Garden where an oasis of indigenous flora and fauna rises to greet you in an atmosphere redolent of the four elements of water, earth, fire and wind.

If the evening is balmy slip off your clothes, slide into the swimming pool and relax as you take in the stars abov.

Raffles, growing depressed and restless, resolved to visit Singapore one more time before heading back to England. This time though, his wife Sophia and his only surviving child Ella accompanied him on his journey. Singapore in 1822 Raffles was reportedly delighted to find that his project had expanded hugely in so few years, and was indeed a bustling hub of activity and trade.

He created the Jackson Town Planning Plan named after the colony's engineer, Phillip Jackson, and thereby rejigged the city in more logical ways. In so doing, poor old Farquhar's developments were doomed to ignominy. As might be expected there were still large elements of racial segregation present (although Jackson's was nonetheless quite scientific in other ways). Following further fractious moments between the two colonialists, Raffles took direct control and applied a heavy handed policy. For example he regulated trading freedom, and instituted a code of settlement for the people. Registration of all land followed that reasserted the power of the British government, for its remit included the Sultan's possessions. A magistrate and police contingent were appointed in line with British principles. In hardly any time at all, a chaotic trading post has become a proper city characterized by civic order.

Officialdom at Calcutta declined to replace Farquhar despite hints of Raffles impending retirement. In frustration, he made Johore a British Protectorate despite objections from Van der Capellen. Eventually John Crawfurd became the new Resident of Singapore, while Captain William Gordon MacKenzie assumed control over Bencoolen. The political system and colonial bureaucracy had finally overcome our hero Raffles, who turned to the natural sciences for solace.

At the opening of a Malay college in Singapore he delivered a paper concerning his observations of his years in Southeast Asia, and of the importance of encouraging both local and European languages. By the time 1823 arrived Raffles had quietly written the initial Singapore Constitution. In it, he took up a moralistic stance that outlawed slavery and gambling. Unusually for 19th Century European thinking the document called for the retention of the multiethnic population of Singapore, and averred that race per se should never be treated as a crime. The Beginning of the End An exhausted Raffles finally departed his beloved City on 9 July 1823, having concluded that his task was over, and that it was time for him to board a ship for England. He stopped over in Batavia to make peace with his old adversary Van der Capellen. After greeting friends in Bencoolen he began the final leg of his voyage home. A minor tragedy took place off Rat Island when a fire at sea destroyed many of his original drawings and official papers that should have been museum pieces today.

He arrived in England on 22 August 1824, after a journey of more than an entire year. By then, both he and Lady Raffles were suffering from poor health that demanded they rest in Cheltenham for a whole month. Following that, they had a gay old time showing off their trophies to distinguished guests in London, and at their Highwood Estate, their country home. Raffles even thought of running for parliament at the time, although he was not to have the days left over to achieve this. Meantime Farquhar had arrived in London too. A war of words between the two of them exploded before the Court of Directors of the British East India Company concerning events at Singapore. However despite the serious charges that his enemy laid, Raffles eluded prosecution.

In a strange twist of irony, Farquhar was awarded military promotion (although he never did return to his old job in Singapore). With that behind him Raffles retired to his second favorite subject - botany. He founded and became first president of the Zoological Society of London (and also of the London Zoo too).

More trouble followed from the East India Company though. He was ordered to pay £ 22,000 compensation for losses incurred during his various administrations, and refused a pension as a final blow. Before the issue was resolved he was far too ill to fight back, and retired to Highwood Estate again to lick his mortal wounds . One day before he would have reached forty-five years of age an apoplectic fit spirited Raffles away. He died in London, England on 5 July 1826, of apoplexy.