Emergency Warning Sirens The siren alerts the public of an impending danger like severe thunderstorm with large hail, tornado, spill of hazardous material spill, or a safety threat. However, the siren doesn't sound for the entire duration of a tornado warning. When the siren stops, it doesn't mean that the danger has passed. If you hear the siren, take cover inside away from glass doors and windows, and turn on your local radio or television stations for further instructions. If it's impossible to get to a radio or television, initiate tornado protection procedures, for this is the reason why the siren was sounded The testing of the emergency warning siren is every Friday at 11 a.m. lasting for 30 seconds. But, you should initiate tornado protection procedures, if the emergency warning siren sounds on a Friday morning longer than 30 seconds.

Develop a Family Disaster Plan Pick a safe place in your home - The safest place to hide is the underground or a basement. If you do not have a basement, consider an interior hallway or room on the lowest floor. If you are in a high-rise building - pick the hallways in the center of the building as your safe place because they are often the most reinforced part of a building. Discuss how you would be warned - Since different communities have different ways of providing warnings, you make sure all family members know the name of the county or parish where you live or are traveling, because tornado watches and warnings are issued for a county or parish by name. Conduct periodic tornado drills - Have a practice for everyone in the family to go to their designated area in response to a tornado threat. It is good to practice your plans for less thinking time during an actual emergency situation. Check with your work and your children's schools and day care centers - Since every building has different safe places, it is important to know where they are and how to get there in an emergency.

Protecting Your Property Make a list of items to bring inside in the event of a storm . Keep trees and shrubbery trimmed . Remove diseased and damaged limbs of trees to make it more wind resistant. Remove any debris or loose items in your yard . Branches and firewood may become missiles in strong winds, so better get rid of them before any unfortunate events happen. Consider installing permanent shutters to cover windows.

Shutters can be closed quickly and provide the safest protection for windows. Strengthen garage doors. As wind applies pressure to the walls, the roof can be lifted off, and the rest of the house can easily follow. Garage doors are often damaged or destroyed by flying debris because it allows strong winds to enter. Supplies Kit Basics The following items might be needed at home or for an evacuation. Keep them in an easy-to-carry backpack or duffel bag near a place you can quickly grab it in times of emergency. Kit basics are: Credit card and cash. Personal identification First aid kit and first aid manual.

Supply of prescription medications. Special needs, for example, diapers or formula, prescription medicines and copies of prescriptions, hearing aid batteries, spare wheelchair battery, spare eyeglasses, or other physical needs. A portable, battery-powered radio or television and extra batteries. Flashlight and extra batteries.

An extra set of car keys. Matches in a waterproof container. Map of the area and phone numbers of places you could go.

because they are particularly vulnerable to overturning during strong winds. Seek mobile home trailer park shelter if available, otherwise look for a ditch. Locate where the nearest emergency warning siren is and whether or not you can hear it from home. Although the city maintains an outdoor siren warning system, homes and businesses are encouraged to acquire a tone-activated Weather-Alert Radio with a battery backup, for Weather-Alert radios provide the most constant and reliable source of information on severe storms broadcast directly from the National Weather Service Forecast Office. Don't forget to store spare batteries. In Schools: Move to central hallways. Avoid gymnasiums and auditoriums with large, poorly supported roofs. Stay away from windows.

Follow the instructions of the principal. In Shopping Centers: Stay indoors. Stay away from glass. Move to an interior area close to interior walls.

Sit on floors to avoid flying debris. In High-Rise Buildings: Move to the center of the building, the hallway or stairways. Avoid areas with large amounts of glass.

Move to an area that has interior walls. Avoid areas with clear-span, lightly supported roofs. Follow company policy.

After a Tornado Continue listening to local radio or television stations or a NOAA Weather Radio for updated information and instructions. Help injured or trapped persons. Give first aid where appropriate. Help a neighbor who may require special assistance - infants, elderly people and people with disabilities.

Watch out for fallen power lines or broken gas lines and report them to the utility company immediately. Avoid disaster areas. Your presence might hamper rescue and other emergency operations, and put you at further risk from the residual effects of tornadoes. Stay out of damaged buildings. Tornadoes can cause great damage, creating further hazards. If you are away from home, return only when authorities say it is safe. When entering damaged buildings, use extreme caution. Carefully watch every step you take.

Wear sturdy shoes. The most common injury following a disaster is cut feet. Use battery-powered lanterns or flashlights when examining buildings. Battery-powered lighting is the safest and easiest, preventing fire hazard for the user, occupants, and building. Examine your walls, floors, doors, staircases, and windows to make sure that the building is not in danger of collapsing. Look for fire hazards . Fire is the most frequent hazard following other disasters. There may be broken or leaking gas lines, or damage to electrical systems.

So, better clean up spilled medicines, bleaches, gasoline, or other flammable liquids immediately. Check for gas leaks. Open a window and quickly leave the building, if you smell gas or hear a blowing or hissing noise. Look for electrical system damage . Turn off the electricity at the main fuse box or circuit breaker, if you see sparks or broken or frayed wires, or if you smell burning insulation. And call first an electrician for advice, if you have to step into the water to get to the fuse box or circuit breaker.

Electrical equipment should be checked and dried first before being returned to service. Watch for loose plaster, drywall, and ceilings that could fall. Take pictures of the damage , both of the building and its contents, for insurance claims.