Whether the Nile river is longer than South America's Amazon river is still a subject of debate. This is mainly due to two reasons. The first reason is that the lengths of the two rivers are found to vary over time especially in the plains, where both the rivers often change their course and the second reason the exact point from where the length of a river is to measured has not always been agreed upon. The Nile river lost several miles of meanders in the region of Nubia when the Lake Nasser was formed. The Nile River has proved to be the lifeline for Egyptians ever since the Stone Age. The annual flood of the Nile River was personified by god Hapy, who had been associated with regeneration and fertility. The Nile river has two major tributaries. These are the White Nile and the Blue Nile. The latter is the source of most of the water as well as the fertile soil , but the former is the longer of the two tributaries. The White Nile rises in Great Lakes region located in central Africa, with its most distant source in southern Rwanda. It flows north from there while passing through Tanzania, Uganda, Lake Victoria and southern Sudan. On the other hand, the Blue Nile originates at Lake Tana located in Ethiopia while flowing into Sudan from the southeast. These two rivers meet each other near the Sudanese capital city of Khartoum. As Nile River w as the lifeline of ancient Egyptian civilization, all the cities and most of the population of Egypt had settled in the Nile valley. Even today the river supports most of the Egyptian population, that otherwise lives in inhospitable regions of the great Sahara Deser t . The river used to be flooded in every spring and it used to deposit fertile soil on the fields . The river's flow is disturbed at various points by cataracts. These are sections of faster flowing water and have many small islands, rocks, shallow water. These form an obstacle to navigation . The first cataract, which is closest to the mouth of this river, is at Aswan which is located to the north of Aswan Dams . The Nile River located on the north of Aswan is actually a regular tourist route that has cruise ships along with traditional wooden sailing boats which are known as feluccas . The northern part of the river flows almost through desert, from Sudan into Egypt. The civilization of Egypt has depended on this river since ancient times. Major part of the population of Egypt with its cities, with an exception of those located near the coast, lie along those parts of Nile valley that are on north of Aswan and almost all the cultural as well as historical sites of Ancient Egypt are located along the banks of the Nile river. The Nile river ends in a large delta that empties itself into the Mediterranean Sea. Agatharcides records show that a military expedition had been able to penetrate far along the course of the Blue Nile during the time of Ptolemy II Philadelphus. The expedition was able to determine that the summer floods were caused due to heavy seasonal rainstorms that took place in the Ethiopian highlands. It must be mentioed that no European in antiquity has been known to reach Lake Tana. Europeans were hardly able to gather little new information about the origin of the Nile River until 15th and 16th centuries. This time the travelers to Ethiopia visited Lake Tana and the source of the Blue Nile which was in the mountains south of this lake. Although James Bruce had claimed to be the first European to visit the headwaters in 1790 but the modern writers give the credit to a Jesuit, Pedro P ez. His full account of the source of the Nile was not published in until early 20th century. The work gives long as well as a vivid account of Ethiopia which is featured in several contemporary works that include Balthazar Telles, Athanasius Kircher and by Johann Michael Vansleb. Europeans had been resident of this country since late 15th century, and it is possible some of them might have visited the headwaters earlier but none of them were able to send a report of discoveries out of Ethiopia. The White Nile was less understood as compared to Blue Nile, and the ancient people had mistakenly believed that the upper reaches of White Nile were represented by the Niger River. Lake Victoria was first identified by Europeans in the year1858 when a British explorer named John Hanning Speke reached the southern shore while he was on a journey with Richard Francis Burton. Both men hope d that their expedition would be able to locate the source of the Nile River. Their journey was quite strenuous and both of them fell ill from various tropical diseases . Speke became temporarily deaf after a beetle had crawled into his ear and he removed it with a knife. Later on he also beca me temporarily blind. After an difficult journey the two men became the first Europeans to discover Lake Tanganyika but Speke was still blind when they reached the lake and was unable to see the Tanganyika lake properly. They also heard of a second lake in that area. As Burton was too sick, he was unable to make the voyage and as a result Speke went alone. This lake eventually proved to be the actual source of the Nile River. Speke had returned to England much before Burton, on 8 May 1859. He made their voyage famous through his speech to the Royal Geographical Society as a part of which he claimed that he hd discovered the source of the Nile River. However it must be mentioned that, most of the survey equipment of the expedition had been lost and thus vital questions regarding the height and extent of this lake were not answered at that time. He was angered by Speke's precipitou s announcements because he believed that they violated an agreement betw een the two men as a part of which they had agreed to speak to the society together. Apart from this, a further rift resulted when Speke was selected to lead an expedition without Burton. A public quarrel ensued and it not only sparked an intense debate within the scientific community, but also interest by other explorers who were either keen to confirm or refute the discovery of Speke. David Livingstone, the famous British explorer and missionary failed in his attempt to verify the discovery of Speke, as he pushed too far west and entered the Congo River system instead. Ultimately Henry Morton Stanley, the Welsh-American explorer confirmed the truth of Speke's discovery, circumnavigating the Lake Victoria and reporting the outflow at Ripon Falls on the northern shore of the lake. On 13 June 1859, the two presented their joint papers concerning their expedition to the Royal Geographical Society. Speke left from Zanzibar with James Augustus Grant, in October 1860. On reaching Uganda, Grant travelled towards north and Speke continued with his journey towards the West to reached Lake Victoria on 28 July 1862. Then he travelled around Lake Victoria on the west side without actually seeing much of it. On the north side, Speke found the Nile flowing out of it and also discovered the Ripon Falls. Then he sailed down the Nile and as a result, he was reunited with Grant. Then he travelled to Gondokoro in the southern part of Sudan. There he met Samuel Baker and his wife. He continued to Khartoum, from where he sent a celebrated telegram to London that read, "The Nile is settled." Involvement of European in Egypt goes back to the time of Napoleon. During that time, an iron streamer was sent by Laird shipyard of Liverpool to the Nile in the 1830s. With the British takeover of Egypt in the1870s and with the completion of the Suez Canal, it was sure that more British river steamers would follow. The Nile is the natural channel of navigation in the area. Access to Sudan and Khartoum was via steamer. Stern wheelers were shipped from England which steamed up the river to re-take the entire city. Regular steam navigation came after this. With British Forces in Egypt during the First World War and during the inter war years, river steamers provided security as well as sight seeing to Luxor and the pyramids. Agatha Christie stories also indicate the penetration of the Nile steamers into the public consciousness. Steam navigation was integral to the two countries till 1962. Sudan steamer traffic was the lifeline due to the fact that few railways or roads had been built. Most of the paddle steamers were retired to the shore front service, but at the same time modern diesel tourist boats remained on the river. 