Europa displayed a large number of intersecting linear features in the low-resolution photos from Voyager 1. At first, scientists believed the features might be deep cracks, caused by crustal rifting or tectonic processes. The closer high-resolution photos from Voyager 2, however, left scientists puzzled: the features were so lacking in topographic relief that as one scientist described them, they "might have been painted on with a felt marker." Europa is internally active due to tidal heating at a level about one-tenth that of Io. The moon is thought to have a thin crust (less than 30 kilometers or 18 miles thick) of water ice, which may be floating on a 50-kilometer-deep (30 mile) ocean. Two new, small satellites, Adrastea and Metis, were found orbiting just outside the ring, while another new satellite, Thebe, was discovered between the orbits of Amalthea and Io. While passing behind Saturn (as viewed from Earth), Voyager 2 probed Saturn's upper atmosphere to measure temperature and density profiles. The probes found that at the highest levels (7 kilopascals pressure) Saturn's temperature was 70 kelvins (203 C), while at the deepest levels measured (120 kilopascals) the temperature increased to 143 kelvins (130 C). The north pole was found to be 10 kelvins cooler, although this may be seasonal. We knew that Uranus is the third largest planet in the solar system and that it orbits the Sun at a distance of about 2.8 billion kilometers (1.7 billion miles) and completes one orbit every 84 years, but Voyager 2 measured t he length of a day on Uranus as 17 hours, 14 minutes. Uranus' most distinguishing feature is that it is tipped on its side. Its unusual position is thought to be the result of a collision with a planet-sized body early in the solar system's history. Given its odd orientation, with its polar regions exposed to sunlight or darkness for long periods, scientists were not sure what to expect at Uranus. Voyager 2 discovered that one of the most striking influences of Uranus' sideways position is its effect on the tail of the magnetic field. The presence of a magnetic field at Uranus was not known at all until Voyager's arrival. In fact, its magnetic field is tilted 60 degrees from the planet's axis of rotation, and the magnetotail proved to be twisted by the planet's rotation into a long corkscrew shape behind the planet. Radiation belts at Uranus, of an intensity similar to those at Saturn, is such that irradiation would quickly darken (within 100,000 years) any methane trapped in the icy surfaces of the inner moons and ring particles. This may have contributed to the darkened surfaces of the moons and ring particles, which are almost uniformly gray in color. A high layer of haze was detected around the sunlit pole, which also was found to radiate large amounts of ultraviolet light, a phenomenon dubbed "dayglow." Surprisingly, both the illuminated and the dark pole, as well as most of the planet, show nearly the same temperature at the cloud tops. The average temperature at Uranus' cloud tops is about 60 kelvins (350 degrees Fahrenheit/213 degrees Celsius). Voyager's study of the moon Miranda, innermost of the five large moons, showed it to be one of the strangest bodies yet seen in the solar system. Detailed images from Voyager's flyby of the moon showed huge fault canyons as deep as 20 kilometers (12 miles), terraced layers, and a mixture of old and young surfaces. One theory holds that Miranda may be a reaggregation of material from an earlier time when the moon was fractured by a violent impact. All nine previously known rings were studied by the spacecraft and showed the Uranian rings to be distinctly different from those at Jupiter and Saturn. The ring system may be relatively young and did not form at the same time as Uranus. The particles that make up the rings are sometimes as large as an SUV, and may be remnants of a moon that was broken by a high-velocity impact or torn up by gravitational effects. The closest approach to Neptune occurred on August 25, 1989. Since this was the last major planet Voyager 2 could visit, it was decided to make a close flyby of the moon Triton, regardless of the consequences to the trajectory, as with Voyager 1's encounter with Saturn and its moon Titan. For many years, beginning in the late 19th century, it was widely believed that an unseen planet (dubbed "Planet X") was influencing Uranus and Neptune, as their observed and predicted positions differed. This belief brought about the 1930 discovery of Pluto, and persisted as it became increasingly clear that Pluto does not have the mass to account for these discrepancies. When Voyager 2 passed Neptune, it became possible to precisely measure Neptune's mass. Neptune turned out to be 0.5% less massive than previously believed, a difference comparable to the entire mass of Mars. When Uranus and Neptune's orbits were recalculated using the most accurate figure, it became clear that the erroneous mass figure - not the gravity of an unseen planet - caused the orbital discrepancies which had long vexed the astronomical community. With the 2006 decision of the International Astronomical Union to reclassify Pluto as a "dwarf planet", the 1989 flyby of Neptune by Voyager 2 became the point when every planet in the solar system had been visited at least once by spacecraft. On October 30, 2007, Voyager 2 passed the termination shock into the heliosheath, approximately 1 billion miles (1.6 billion km) closer to the Sun than Voyager 1 did. This is due to the local interstellar magnetic field of deep space. The southern hemisphere of the solar system's heliosphere is being pushed in. 