A Cluster of three propane water heaters. In this article, we will focus on water heating as a thermodynamic process using a constant energy source to heat water to the required temperature. The domestic uses of hot water is for cooking, cleaning, bathing, and space heating. In industry, both hot water and water super-heated to steam have many uses in the manufacturing process. In our homes, water is traditionally heated in vessels known as kettles, cauldrons, pots , or coppers. The idea is that these vessels heat a batch of water as required, but do not produce a continual supply as it would be wasteful. Then, there are a ppliances which provide a more-level or constant supply of hot water, and these are variously known as water boilers, heaters, calorifiers, heat exchangers, or geysers depending on whether the contents being heated is potable or non-potable water. Moreover, it is important to know if it is for domestic or industrial use, what the energy source is, and in which part of the world they are found. With domestic installations, potable water heated for uses other than space heating is sometimes known as domestic hot water (DHW). Around the world, the most common energy sources for heating water are still fossil fuels. These would include natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, oil, or sometimes solid fuels such as coal and anthracite. Such fuels may be consumed directly or by using electricity, which in turn derives its energy from the processing of the above fuels or from nuclear or other renewable sources. In addition, alternative energy sources in the form of solar energy , heat pumps , hot water heat recycling, and sometimes geothermal heating are in use too. These may be used as required, usually in combination with backup systems supplied by oil, gas, or electricity. Some countries use district heating as a major source of water heating. This is particularly the case in Scandinavia. District heating simply makes it possible to supply all of the energy required for domestic water heating, as well as space heating from waste heat from industries, power plants , incinerators , geothermal heating, and central solar heating. The heating of the domestic water is performed in heat exchangers stored at the customers premises. There is no need for back up systems thanks to the very reliable availability via district heating systems. Types of water heating storage appliances Fossil fuel burning in a boiler can be used for water for space heating purposes, whereas potable water may be heated in a separate appliance: this is quite common practice in the USA where warm-air space heating is the usual method used. In the UK, when using a space-heating water boiler, the typical configuration in this country is to use boiler-heated ("primary") water to heat ("secondary") water in a cylindrical vessel (usually made of copper), which contains potable water supplied from a cold water storage tank, usually in the attic of the building. Normally, this produces a steady supply of DHW at low static pressure, and a good flow. Water heating appliances in other parts of the world do not use cold water storage tanks but heat water at pressures close to the point of entry of the incoming mains water supply. Gravity feed systems Instant water heaters Stand-alone appliances for used for the instant heating for Domestic Hot Water purposes are referred to North America as tankless heaters. Elsewhere, they are called multipoint heaters, geysers or Ascots. In the Antipodes, a similar wood fired appliance known as the chip heater was very popular. Another common arrangement, is where hot-water space heating is used for the boiler to heat potable water giving a continuous supply of DHW without any extra equipment in line. Appliances capable of supplying both space-heating and DHW offer the best of both worlds in that they effectively become combination (or "combi") boilers. While instant heaters can provide a continuous supply of DHW, the flow rate they output is limited by the thermodynamics of heating water, based on the quality of the fuels supplied, and the efficiency rate at which this fuel gets used . Storage systems Heating water in a pressure chamber is another popular configuration where higher flow rates are needed, albeit for limited periods. The idea is to heat water in this vessel which can cope with the hydrostatic pressure similar to that of the incoming mains supply. Most systems incorporate a pressure-reducing valve to limit the pressure to a safe level for the vessel. This was to curb the risk of too greater pressure exposing the cylinder to the possibility of explosion! They are called 'tanks' in North America, and these vessels may use a gas or oil burner to heat the water directly. When hot-water space heating boilers are in use, DHW cylinders are heated indirectly by primary water from the boiler, or by an electric immersion heater , which acts as a backup to the boiler. For the UK these vessels are termed 'unvented cylinders' - also known as Megaflos after the brand name of the most widely-used model. Over in the US, they are known as indirect-fired water heaters, when connected to a boiler. The thermodynamics and economics On average, water enters homes in the US at about 10 C (50 F), although this naturally varies with altitude, latitude and season. Adults generally prefer shower temperature between 40 - 49 C (105 - 120 F). This means that the water temperature has to be raised about 30 C (55 F) or more, because the hot water is mixed with cold water on delivery. The uniform guideline for shower flow rate is 2.5 gpm (gallons per minute), whereas sink and dishwasher usages range from 1.3 gpm. In the U.S., natural gas is measured in CCF (or 100 cubic feet), which is converted to a standardized heat content unit called the therm , equal to 100,000 British Thermal Units. A BTU is the energy measurement required to raise one pound of water by one degree Fahrenheit at sea level. In the U.S., a gallon of water weighs 8.3 pounds, so to increase a 40-gallon tank of 55 F water up to 105 F would require 40 x 8.3 x (105 55) / 100,000 BTU, or approximately 0.17 CCF, at 100% efficiency. If you have stayed with this example you are either very bored or nerdy. Now try this one: A 40,000 BTU (per hour) heater would take 25 minutes to achieve the same, assuming 100% efficiency. At $1 per therm, the cost of the gas would convert to about 17 cents. A typical electric water heater by comparison normally has a 4500 watt heating element, assuming 100% efficiency, results in a heating time of about 1.1 hours. We know that 16,600 BTU is roughly 4.9 kWh , and at 10 cents/kWh the electricity would be billed at $0.49. Running a shower at 2.5 gpm, and 104 degrees Fahrenheit compares to operating a 13.2 kW appliance. Domestic electric immersion In the UK, domestic electric immersion heaters are typically rated at 3 kilowatts. When it comes to residential use, the energy efficiencies of tank water heaters can vary greatly. Variations can and do also occur based on manufacturer and model. Electric heaters tend to be fractionally more efficient when it comes to recovery efficiency (how efficient energy is transferred to the water) reaching as high as 98.9%. Gas fired heaters on the other hand, have maximum recovery efficiencies of far less, at about 86% . The remaining heat is lost with the flue gasses. Overall, energy levels can rate as low as 80% for electric and 50% for gas systems. If you aren't out of it by now, there's definitely something wrong with you - go see a doctor! Here's more: A tankless water heater operating at the same power levels (i. e. at 100% efficiency) could supply 1.6 gpm continuously, raising the temperature by the required 50 F. However, the same unit could supply 1.3 gpm while raising the temperature to 60 F. To be able to cope with a full house load of multiple uses - that would be at least 5 gpm - with a centralized tankless water heater, would necessitate three to four times this power consumption. However, this is very difficult to achieve with natural gas, and not a little difficult when it comes to electricity. Quite a number of tankless water heaters can harness in excess of 100,000 BTU/h during high demand, and so require heavy duty power supplies. So, we can see that it takes a great deal of energy to heat water - test for yourself while boiling a gallon of water on the stove. Conclusion: for this reason, tankless on-demand water heaters need to have a very large energy supply source to function properly. By comparison, a wall outlet can only source enough energy to warm a low level, or small amount of water - about 0.17 gpm at 40 C temperature at sea level. Tank-type water boilers Typical storage water heater Both in household and commercial terms, most water heaters in North America are of the tank type. They are also called storage water heaters, these consist of a cylindrical tank in which water temperature is maintained, usually quite hot and ready for use. Of course if the appliance fails for any reason the water will start to cool quite quickly. Regarding domestic use, typical sizes range from 75 to 400 liters (20 to 100 U.S. gallons). The primary heating source can be electricity, natural gas, propane, heating oil, solar , and certain other energy sources. Natural gas heaters are most popular in the United States and most European countries, since the gas is often conveniently piped to all points around towns and cities. Currently, this form of heating is the cheapest to use. When compared to tankless heaters, storage water heaters hold the advantage of using energy (gas or electricity) at a relatively slow draw rate, storing the heat for later use. The larger tanks tend to provide hot water with less temperature fluctuation at moderate flow rates. In New Zealand and the U. S., storage water heaters are typically vertical, cylindrical tanks, usually placed on the floor or on a platform raised a short distance above the floor - this facilitates easy access when maintenance is required. Spanish storage water heater tanks are typically horizontal. In India, they are mainly vertical. In apartments they are often mounted in the ceiling space over laundry-utility rooms. In western countries, where ambient temperature is colder, tiny point-of-use electric storage water heaters with capacities ranging from 8 to 32 litres (2 to 6 gallons) are made for installation in kitchen and bath cabinets or on the wall above a sink. They typically use low power heating elements, about 1 kW to 1.5 kW, and can provide hot water long enough for hand washing, or, if plumbed into an existing hot water line, until hot water arrives from a remote high capacity water heater. They are sometimes used when retrofitting a pump and recirculating plumbing in a building is too costly or impractical. Since they maintain water temperature thermostatically, they will supply hot water at extremely low flow rates, unlike tankless heaters. In tropical the tropical regions, Singapore, and India for example, an ideal storage water heater may vary from 10 L to 35 L. Even 6 L tanks are not uncommon. This is because smaller tanks are sufficient as ambient weather and water temperature are not as wide as in the cooler climbs. It almost goes without saying that the inner tank of the water heater is the single most important feature of this appliance. The better heaters feature a copper container. The heating element rates as the second most important feature with many different types available on the market. Quality very definitely effects operating efficiency and heating costs. Cartridge elements seem to be more popular than tubular elements. Maintenance Considerations It is absolutely vital that a water heater, particularly a combustion type, be properly installed to avoid safety hazards. This is why this function is regulated in most countries. The surrounding area must be kept clear, and the T&P (Temperature and Pressure) relief valve must be tested at least once a year by lifting the lever provided and allowing water to flow through. Failure to do so may result in the valve jamming which could result in a dangerous pressure buildup and potential rupture of the tank, or premature failure of the tank or other plumbing components. Areas with high mineral content or valves which have not been maintained correctly may leak for some time after clearing. If the valve does not stop dripping, or it is noticed to be dripping continually on its own and the water temperature and pressure are within prescribed limits, it has to be replaced. Most valves have clear written instructions to this effect. Every hot water storage system should include an expansion tank, although not required by code in all areas. If this is not present, a thermal expansion relief valve is the very minimum requirement whenever the water system incorporates any sort of check valve or back flow prevention. Sludge or sediment that accumulates in the bottom of the tank should be drained out at least yearly, to maintain heating efficiency and to keep the tank lasting longer. At first, tanks were made out of copper and were very corrosion resistant; they could last for decades. Theses days, tanks are made out of steel lined with glass or porcelain, but they can rust and leak. To help prevent this, sacrificial anode rods of magnesium or aluminium alloy themselves undergo galvanic corrosion to reduce corrosion inside the steel tank. It goes without saying that tanks with longer guarantees have increased anode material, but when the anode is used up, the tank will rust. It may be possible to check the anode condition, and replace it if it is wearing out. It appears that on average, modern US water heater tanks last about ten years. The tank should have a catchment tray underneath to contain leaks and channel water run off into a drain. Alarms are available that alert the homeowner to leaks, and some devices even have the capability of shutting the water off or alerting a remote location by telephone. All water heaters are prone to leaks, so it is important to know where the water supply shutoff valve is located. Solar water heaters Direct-charge solar heater panels with integral storage tank In some countries, solar powered water heaters are used extensively, Israel being a good example. Where abundant sunshine is ever-present, well at least during the day, solar power makes good sense. Israel is well situated climatically speaking, and so, much has been spent on research and development of solar power technology. The solar receptors are installed outside dwellings, typically on the roof to save space and ensure maximum solar radiation. Most models are the direct-gain type, which consist of flat panels in which water circulates. Other types may use dish or trough mirrors to concentrate sunlight on a collector tube filled with water, brine or other heat transfer fluid. A storage tank is placed indoors or out. Circulation is caused by natural convection or by a small electric pump. At night, or when insufficient sunlight is present, circulation through the panel can be stopped by closing a valve and/or stopping the circulating pump, to keep hot water in the storage tank from cooling. Depending on the local climate, freeze protection, as well as prevention of overheating, must be addressed in their design, installation, and operation. Another type of solar water heater is the evacuated tube collector. It is usually mounted on a roof, and has a row of glass tubes containing heat conducting rods, typically copper. The rods act as heating elements in a circulating loop of antifreeze. The captured heat is transferred into the domestic hot water system by a heat exchanger. This design is smaller and more efficient than traditional flat plate collectors, and works well in very cold climates. The evacuated description refers to air having been removed from the glass tubes to create a vacuum. This results in very low heat loss, once the inside coating has absorbed solar radiation. Geothermal heating In countries like Iceland and New Zealand, and other volcanic regions, water heating is harnessed extensively. Since the pollution is already a given (from volcanic activity), at least man cannot be blamed for once! Safety and Water heaters Water heaters have been known to explode with significant damage, injury, or even death resulting, if certain safety devices are omitted or by-passed. Once the water temperature exceeds 100 C (212 F), the water still remains liquid inside the tank, but if the pressure is suddenly released as the hot tap is opened, the water will be at boiling temperature and has the potential to cause scalding or steam burns. In fact, water above about 88 C (190 F) will cause burns on contact, which is why a safety device - termed a temperature and pressure relief (T&P or TPR) valve - is normally fitted on the top of the water heater to divert water if the temperature or pressure becomes too high. Most plumbing codes require that a discharge pipe be connected to the valve to direct the flow of discharged hot water to a drain, typically a nearby floor drain, or outside the living space. Some building codes will allow for the discharge pipe to terminate in the garage. In older houses, where the water heater is often part of the space heating boiler, and plumbing codes allow, plumbers should install a "Watts 210" device in place of a TPR valve. The purpose of this device is to sense temperatures of 99 C (210 F), which then results in the automatic shut down of the gas supply and a cut off too of any further heating. Moreover, an expansion tank or exterior pressure relief valve should be installed to prevent pressure build up in the plumbing pipes and a very real risk of rupturing pipes, valves, or even the water heater. Scalding remains a serious concern with any water heater. Th bodies largest organ is in fact the human skin, and this needs to constantly protected. Burns can occur at temperatures higher than 60 C (140 F), but some people have incredibly sensitive skin which can burn at even lower temperatures, even as low as 50 C (120 F). Old aged folk and children are most vulnerable to serious scalds due to disabilities, slow reaction times, or inexperience. Australia has effectively negated the risk of scalding by using a tempering valve on the outlet of the water heater. This valve blends sufficient cold water with the hot from the water heater to keep the outgoing water temperature fixed, often set to 50 C. Without this valve, reduction of the water heater's setpoint temperature is the most direct way to reduce scalding. This is controlled by a thermostat, which responds to both high and low temperature ranges. Bear in mind that hot water is essential for basic sanitation. This is why residential dishwashing machines, for example, include an electric heating element for increasing the water temperature well-above that provided by water heaters. The result of mixing hot and cold water via a tempering valve is also referred to as tempered water. Finally, there seem to be two conflicting safety issues around water heater temperature. Firstly, there is the risk of scalding from overly-hot water, and secondly the potentially even more harmful prospect of the incubation of bacteria colonies, particularly Legionella, in water that is not sufficiently hot enough to kill the bacteria. Both of these risks are potentially life threatening and can be countered by setting the water heater's thermostat to at least 50 C (120 F). The European Guidelines for Control and Prevention of Travel Associated Legionnaires Disease recommends that hot water should be kept at 60 C (140 F). When drawn in the household, the water should be distributed at a temperature of at least 50 C and preferably 55 C is achieved within one minute at all outlets. If there is a dishwasher in operation without a booster heater, it may require a water delivery temperature between 57 C (134.6 F) and 60 C (140 F) for effective cleaning. Tempering valves set to no more than 55 C should then be attached to faucets in order to avoid scalding. It should also be noted that tank temperatures above 60 C may produce calcium deposits, which could later foster bacteria in the water tank. Temperatures above 60 C has been known to cause gradual erosion of glassware in a dishwasher. Gas Central Heating Boiler Boiler Breakdowns Home / Services / Repairs & Maintenance / Gas Central Heating Boiler Boiler Breakdowns For central heating and boiler repair call Boiler Breakdowns now for a fast response to any emergency heating repairs. Are you fed up of being overcharged? Are you sick and tired of poor workmanship? Have you been let down time and time again? There are lots of plumbers in London - so why is it always so difficult to find a good one? Gas central heating and boiler installation, service and repair is a fundamental part of modern living and yet there are only a few companies out there actually offering their customers good service. At Boiler Breakdowns we have a simple philosophy based on providing customer satisfaction from your first phone call to us through to the completion of the job. Rather than just charging as much as we can every time we get a central heating or boiler repair job we believe in offering value for money so that you'll use us again and again for any plumbing work you have. We also guarantee all our work so you're never left in the lurch. It's a philosophy that definitely pays off - our customers don't just send us letters to say how pleased they were, they keep coming back time after time. Gas Tankless Water Heaters Here are four things you'll need to consider before buying your tankless water heater: The appropriate size for your household needs To ensure your tankless water heater will deliver enough hot water, determine the flow rate and temperature rise youl need. Make sure the unit you purchase can deliver the most common temperature rise of 70 degrees Fahrenheit (39 degrees Celsius) at the desired flow rate. A trained professional can help you determine the right size for your home. Minimum flow rate Tankless water heaters require a minimum flow of waterypically around a half gallon per minutehrough the heating system to heat water. To avoid problems associated with not meeting the minimum flow requirement, consult with a qualified plumber to make sure the flow rates at outlets youl connect to the heater exceed the unit minimum requirements. Gas sizing information Take a look at the installation manual of the product you'd like to purchase to see the gas sizing requirements. Tankless water heaters utilize three to four times the BTUs of a conventional tank water heater. Ask your plumber to verify that your current gas line, size, and length can provide sufficient gas flow to the unit. Consult with your gas company to determine if your gas meter is adequately to accommodate larger water heaters. Compatibility with water supplies Local water quality should be considered in areas where the potential for scaling may be increased. Scale control in water heaters requires disconnecting the unit, connecting deliming hoses and recirculating special deliming agents. Combustion air Tankless water heaters require combustion air. It's important to understand how combustion air will be delivered to your water heater and how much combustion air is needed. When placed in an unconfined area, combustion air can simply be the air within your home. Confined areas (such as a closet) may require air ducts or additional air inlets. Whenever possible, it is always better to pull combustion air in from outside the home - it is cleaner and will keep your tankless water heater operating at peak performance. Check the installation manual for more information about combustion air requirements. Clearances Tankless water heater placement is another important factor to consider. Each tankless water heater will have different distance requirements between the heater and other parts of your home, as seen in the example above. Some of the clearances you'll need to consider are: - Operable windows, doors and other fresh air openings - Adjacent walls or tall bushes - Below gutters, sanitary pipework, eaves or overhangs - Distance above the ground - From a gas meter, gas regulator, electrical box or another heater Check the installation manual to see what your heater requires and whether it will work with your home layout. Installation issues need to be considered Special venting and/or the need for increased combustion air may require additional changes because of the unit higher input rates. You will also need 120 volt electric power, and in the event of an electrical power outage, the tankless water heater will not operate. Venting Tankless water heaters require gas exhaust venting to the outside. Some vent horizontally, others vent vertically. Check the installation manual for more information about venting options and for any accessories you'll need to buy for your chosen venting configuration. All manufacturers of stainless steel products state that the installer cannot mix and match venting. It is a liability issue. If you start with one brand of stainless steel venting, you must complete the job with the same brand. You cannot mix and match venting. If you do all matters of warranty will be voided. Comparison: Natural Gas Water Heaters Compared to electric water heaters, natural gas units have a lot to offer the purchaser. For example, they require much less maintenance and are very efficient, a fact that will indicate on your monthly utility bill almost immediately after switching to natural gas. Moreover, the performance of your water heater will improve because gas provides more hot water and quicker. For a better understanding of the types of natural gas water heaters, contact Martin now. Money Saving Apart from offering superior performance, commercial natural gas water heaters are less expensive to operate too. You could save as much as 50% on your fuel bill when compared to electric. Avoid high electrical demand charges and help reduce the nations insatiable demand for electricity. Definitely a case where change can be profitable. For more information on cost comparisons, call Martin now. Flexible and Reliable When it comes to commercial buildings, natural gas water heaters are the best choice, and that is because they cost less to operate and they deliver more hot water where its needed in far less time than electric heaters. Industry too, has long understood that natural gas is the fuel of choice when it comes to heating water. Restaurant, laundry, health club, health-care, hotel and apartment operators are prime candidates. Lime scale is one of the top maintenance concerns for commercial water heaters, and this is regardless of what fuel they use. The mineral content of the water being heated affects the amount of scale build-up in water heaters. Should you require more information on scale deposits, and how water heaters perform in hard water areas, call us now.