The country of Afghanistan is bordered by Pakistan in the south and east, Iran in the south and west, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan in the north, and China in the far northeast. It also lies at the crossroads between East and West, and has been a point of trade and migration for as long as anyone remembers. As a result, the land has seen numerous invaders, of which the most recently has been the United States aka NATO. In late 2001, the United Nations Security Council authorized the establishment of an International Security Assistance Force.

This force formed the basis of NATO troops that are involved in assisting the Afghanistan government in establishing the writ of law as well as rebuilding key infrastructures in the nation. In 2005, the United States and Afghanistan signed a strategic partnership agreement committing both nations to a long-term relationship. In the meantime, multi-billion US dollars have also been provided by the international community for the reconstruction of the country. Geographv Afghanistan is mainly mountainous, although with plains to the north and in the southwest. Large tracts are dry, and fresh water limited. In fact, the endorheic Sistan Basin cut off from its original source of water is almost the driest region in the world. The climate is continental, with hot summers and icy winters, and people who are generally impoverished may suffer greatly. Natural wealth includes copper, gold, iron ore, silver and zinc.

L apis , emerald and azure are found in the north-east. There could be significant petroleum and natural gas reserves in the northern areas. Elsewhere, the country also believed to have uranium, coal, chromite, talc, barites , sulfur, lead, and salt reserves. All these are largely untapped due to decades of violence. History Though modern history begins in 1747 when Ahmad Shah Durrani created the country as its borders stand, Afghanistan's history is more ancient. European Influence The 19th Century saw the so-called Anglo-Afghan wars played out in 1839 to 1842, 1878 to 1880, and finally in 1919. This was part of a larger strategy to counter what the British perceived as threats from Russia to their own empire elsewhere. In the end, not much was achieved - in fact many still call it a stupid, pointless war that ended with the destruction of Kabul's Great Bazaar.

The British also did some unspeakable things to those who opposed them. Acts of crass stupidity like this still bear down deeply on the Afghan soul. In a way the pain was similar then to America's twin towers centuries later, and reawakened by George Bush with horrifying results. Republic of Afghanistan In 1973 Mohammed Daoud Khan launched a bloodless coup d ' tat and became the first President of Afghanistan in the new Republic. However the tradition of violence against effective opposition continued.

In 1978 the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan's (PDPA), Nur Mohammad Taraki became President in a bloody coup. However some good was to come of it. The PDPA reintroduced freedom of religion and waived farmers' debts countrywide as part of ambitious land reform. They also made statements supportive of women's rights and introduced females to political life. Anahita Ratebzad (a major Marxist leader and member of the Revolutionary Council) went so far as to say that " Privileges which women, by right, must have are equal education, job security, health services, and free time to rear a healthy generation for building the future of the country Educating and enlightening women is now the subject of close government attention ".

The were two main reactions to this revolutionary approach. The mass of city dwellers were largely ambivalent, going on as before. However religiously conservative Afghans in remote areas favoured traditionalist 'Islamic' restrictions on women's and this was slowly building a reaction that would become the Taliban. America and its allies lost interest in Afghanistan and did little to help it rebuild its war-ravaged country, or to influence events there. In the vacuum fighting continued among the victorious Mujahideen factions, which gave rise to a state controlled by warlords.

Things got so bad that in 1994 over 10,000 people were killed in Kabul alone. Nature abhors a vacuum and the Taliban developed as a powerful politico-religious force, occupying Kabul in 1996 and establishing the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. By the end of 2000, they were in control of ninety-five percent of the country.

Accordingly, Article 60 [Title: Head of State, Vice Presidents] states that: (1) The President is the head of state of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, and conducts his authorities in executive, legislative, and judiciary branches in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution. (2) The President shall have two Vice Presidents, one first and one second. (3) The candidate to the Presidency on his or her candidacy shall declare the name of the Vice Presidents to the nation.

(4) The Vice President in the absence, resignation, and or death of the President, acts in accordance with the provisions of this constitution.

Law Enforcement and Military There are more than 100,000 national police officers, with plans to recruit even more and currently receiving training through the Afghanistan Police Program. Although officially responsible for maintaining civil order, they may be usurped by local and regional military commanders in the hinterland. There have been accusations of improper treatment and detention of prisoners.

In many areas, crimes have gone uninvestigated because of insufficient police and / or communications. When this happens, Afghan troops may be dispatched sent to quell fighting in those regions. Administration Afghanistan is administratively divided into provinces called welayats. Each province has a capital overseeing provincial districts - and each district normally covers a city or several townships too.

The Ministry of Interior appoints each Provincial Governor, and the District Prefects that serve under him. The Governor is the de facto representative of the central government of Afghanistan, and held responsible for all official administrative matters. The Provincial Chief of Police is appointed by the Ministry of Interior too. There is one exception.

In Kabul the President appoints the Mayor who is completely independent from other administrative structures. Details of the welayats are provided below. Badakhshan Badghis Baghlan Balkh Bamyan Daykundi Farah Faryab Ghazni Ghor Helmand Herat Jowzjan Kabul Kandahar Kapisa Khost Konar Kunduz Laghman Lowgar Nangarhar Nimruz Nurestan Oruzgan Paktia Paktika Panjshir Parvan Samangan Sare Pol Takhar Wardak Zabol Foreign Relations Inevitably, NATO and America's role in fighting insurgencies plays a role. Hence relations between Afghanistan and NATO members is strong, especially because the country depends to such a large extent on multi-billion dollar aid infusions from the United States, Canada, France, the United Kingdom, Australia and Germany. Relations between Afghanistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran are excellent. As starting point, the two nations share the same language and culture. Iran is a also consistent donor towards Afghanistan's reconstruction program.

Afghan and Pakistani relations continue to be fluid. The two nations are always disputing, but recent relations have deteriorated vastly. This is because Pakistan is regarded as a destabilizing force. Most of the Taliban come from Pakistan, and Osama bin Laden was caught hiding there. By contrast, Afghanistan maintains excellent relations with its Northern Allies. These are Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan who all share a similar culture with it. Afghanistan also has good relations with Russia (surprisingly) and India too. In fact, India is the second largest investor after Iran.

Afghanistan enjoys excellent relations with the rest of the Arab and the Muslim world. It is clear where it stands in terms of national values, despite the efforts of the British, Russian and and American invaders who have attacked it in the past two hundred years. Transport The national carrier Ariana Afghan Airlines maintains domestic flights between Kabul, Herat, Kandahar and Mazar-e Sharif. Its international links connect to Dubai, Frankfurt , Istanbul and a number of other destinations. Kam Air, Pamir Airways and Safi Airlines also offer a limited choice of domestic routes .

There is a restricted rail service through to Turkmenistan. Two new railway lines are being constructed between Herat and the Iranian city of Mashad, and between Kandahar and Quetta in Pakistan. The majority of Afghans travel between cities on buses when they do. It's recently become possible to purchase new cars and commercial vehicles from Hyundai , Nissan and Toyota dealers in Kabul.

Alternatively, second-hand vehicles are also arriving in large numbers from the UAE, in anticipation of the completion of the project to rebuild highways and roads throughout the country. Communication & Technology Afghan Wireless, Roshan, Etisalat, Areeba and Afghan Telecomms all provide a range of services. The Afghan Ministry of Communications signed a an agreement in 2006 with ZTE Corporation for the establishment of a country-wide fibre-optic cable network. It is hoped that this will improve the quality of internet and telephone services, and also television and radio broadcasts (the latter are available in most parts of the country, albeit sometimes of a poorer quality). FedEx and DHL courier services continue to supplement the slower Afghan mail. Education By 2006 there were already over four million male and female students studying in schools throughout the country. However, the stains of Taliban neglect are ever-present. This includes lack of funding, unsafe school buildings and culturally restrictive practices.

Moreover the lack of women teachers especially in more conservative areas is worrisome too, since some parents still refuse to allow men to educate their daughters. In terms of higher education, Kabul University is fully open to both male and female students. The American University of Afghanistan is also back in business and aiming to provide a world-class English-language, co-educational learning environment, and accepts students from neighboring countries too. Construction work is ongoing at the University of Balkh in Mazari Sharif. And so there is hope for Afghanistan's youth again.