The P rinciples of Journalism 1. Journalism's first obligation is to the truth A nation's citizens rely on having reliable, accurate facts put in a meaningful context to ensure the democratization of truth. The job of journalism is to pursue this in a practical sense (as opposed to in an absolute or philosophical way that is the remit of academia). Journalists are morally obliged to convey a reliable and fair account of truth as it stands at the time of writing, based on their p rofessional discipline of assembling and verifying facts. Then, journalists also need to be as transparent as possible, so that audiences can make their own assessments of the validity of the information knowing their sources and and their methods. The truth, over time, emerges from this forum of expanding voices in which accuracy is the foundation upon which everything else is built. Dynamics include interpretation, comment, context, analysis, debate and even criticism. This greater - not lesser need - for identifiable sources dedicated to verifying that information, and putting it in context, becomes increasingly essential a s citizens encounter an ever greater flow of information data. 2. Journalism's first loyalty is to citizens That a news channel is committed to its reader-citizens first, is the basis of its credibility, and indeed the covenant that tells the audience the coverage is not slanted towards friends or advertisers. This is because, while news organizations admittedly answer to many other constituencies (advertisers, shareholders, government regulators, the courts and so on) the primary allegiance of journalists must surely be to maintain allegiance to the larger public interest over and above any other? If this is not the case, then they cannot claim to provide information without fear or favor, and they have failed their calling. Ignoring certain citizens has the effect of disenfranchising them of their rights to be equal. This implies that journalism shall present a representative picture of all constituent members in society. Commercially, of course, the modern news industry is aware that credibility builds a broad and loyal audience, and that economic success will follow in its turn. A head of other considerations , the media ought to nurture (and not exploit) their allegiance to their audience. The truth may never be compromised in the search for wealth. 3. Journalists must be independent from those they cover While commentators and editorial writers all have their favorites and none are neutral, their intellectual fairness , accuracy, and ability to inform the public remains the mainspring of their credibility. In this case they dare not favor a certain group or outcome. The spirit of true journalism is a dogged independence and the cornerstone of its reliability. Media people must keep awareness of this continually in the forefront of their spirits (as opposed to paying lip-service to neutrality). However our independence does not convey the right to stray into elitism, isolation, arrogance, or heaven forbid nihilism. 4. The essence of the profession is the discipline of verification Our professional discipline dictates that jou rnalists verify all information. However this does not imply that journalists are free of bias. Indeed, who can claim to be? This calls rather for a consistently transparent method of testing information, so that cultural and personal angles do not undermine the accuracy of our work (and are indeed admitted where relevant). The point is that method shall remain objective, even if the journalist in their heart of hearts is not. To be genuine, the result must display evidence of disclosing as much as possible about sources, seeking out multiple witnesses, and indeed asking relevant stakeholders to comment. True journalism discriminates itself from other modes of communication (propaganda, fiction or entertainment) on account of t his discipline of verification . While journalism has developed various techniques for determining facts, the need for professional method is not always fully recognized or refined. For instance, could we not to more to develop a system for testing the reliability of journalistic interpretation objectively? 5. Journalism shall be the independent monitor of power As journalists, we find ourselves in the unique position of being able to serve as watchdog over those whose position / power enables them to affect the right of citizens to the pursuit of happiness. America's social compacts conceive this as the ultimate bulwark against despotism. The Courts have affirmed this and the citizens rely on it. We have a solemn duty as journalists to cherish, protect and fight for this watchdog freedom that others who went before us established. We shall never demean it through frivolous, exploitation for commercial gain - or indeed abuse for personal purposes. 6. Journalism must make the interesting and relevant noteworthy Journalism is storytelling with a purpose. It should do more than gather an audience or catalogue the important. For its own survival, it must balance what readers know they want, with what they cannot anticipate but need. In short, it must strive to make the significant interesting and relevant. The effectiveness of a piece of journalism is measured both by how much a work engages its audience and enlightens it. This means journalists must continually ask what information has most value to citizens and in what format. While journalism should reach beyond such topics as government and public safety, a journalism overwhelmed by trivia and false significance ultimately engenders a trivial society. 7. Journalism shall provide a forum for compromise and criticism Discussion serves society best when it is informed by facts rather than by supposition and prejudice. The news media are the common carriers of this debate, and this responsibility forms a basis for our special privileges. Accuracy and truthfulness require that as framers of the public discussion we not neglect the points of common ground, where problem solving occurs. That's why we have to continuously strive to place ideas in context rather than highlight only the conflicting fringes of debate - so that we fairly represent the varied interests and viewpoints in our communities. 8. Journalism's practitioners shall exercise their personal consciences News organizations do well to nurture media independence by encouraging individuals to speak their minds. Intellectual diversity is necessary to understand and accurately cover an increasingly diverse society. It is this diversity of minds and voices, not just numbers, that really matters. Every journalist must have a personal sense of ethics and responsibility - a moral compass if you like. That's why each and every one of us must be willing - if accuracy and fairness dictate it - to voice differences with our colleagues, whether in the executive suite, or in t he newsroom. 9. The news shall be comprehensive and proportional at all times Journalism creates a map for citizens to navigate society. Keeping news in proportion and not leaving out important things are also cornerstones of truthfulness. Neglecting others, stereotyping, i nflating events for sensation or being disproportionately negative, all make for a less reliable map. The map is only an analogy; proportion and comprehensiveness are subjective, yet their elusiveness does not lessen their significance. Moreover the map must include all news of our entire communities, not just those with attractive wallets. This is best achieved by newsrooms with a diversity of backgrounds, personalities, and perspectives among their members. 