Cass County, Missouri is around 40 miles southeast of Kansas City and right on the western border of Missouri as per the diagram below. Those of a religious persuasion could be interested to know that in 1953 there were two-hundred members of the [Old] Mennonite Church living there. If this is unimportant to you, you have my permission to skip over it and not feel stressed.

Ingredients: 1 cup dark brown sugar 3/4 cup dark corn syrup 3/4 stick of unsalted butter, softened 3 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 cups pecan nuts 1 tablespoon of best bourbon whiskey 1 9-inch pie shell, unbaked Mama's Method: Cream the butter and dark brown sugar together . Add the eggs (one at a time) beating well after each addition. Add the corn syrup , vanilla, salt and bourbon. Blend everything together well. Put one cup of pecan nuts at the bottom of the unbaked pie shell. Pour the mixture over the top. Sprinkle the secondcup of pecans over. Bake for plus / minus one hour at 350° F until nice and brown.

I watched the kitchen staff at that legendary Cass County restaurant hoping to understand exactly how they went about cooking their baby back ribs. What I observed confirmed that these ribs are the simplest of all to cook. Provided, that is you follow Selwyn's recipe that uses his blend of herbs and spices that I'll risk excommunication to disclose. If you didn't prepare the seasoning blend the night before, season your baby back ribs and refrigerate them overnight and allow them to come to room temperature before you cook (please defer what follows until tomorrow when you're actually ready).

Take up a few slabs of beef baby back ribs, your favorite barbecue sauce and Selwyn's special seasoning blend that includes cayenne pepper, unsalted meat tenderizer, seasoning salt, onion and garlic powder , paprika and finally a dash of black pepper Resolve not to overcook your baby backs. They don't require as much time cooking as pork spare ribs on the grill. (To prepare the mix combine equivalent volumes of these ingredients in small bowl, mix thoroughly, place in a shaker and shake well. Dispose of any leftover seasoning. Storing in a cool, dry place is no substitute for the real thing.

Fire up your grill. Ribs and other foods cooked over coals taste so much better, so if you were thinking of using a gas grill then forget it unless you're content with a second class substitute. Allow the coals to burn off until they are ash grey and glowing. Then spread them in a single layer over the entire bottom surface of the grill while they're still holding together. Begin by grilling your ribs bone-side down as close to three inches away from the heat source as possible.

As soon as your ribs start to cooking turn them frequently (once a minute is my personal preference). Prevent the meat from drying out by basting it often with a mixture of water, vinegar and seasoning blended to taste (this also works well when putting out fires which do have a habit of flaring up at inconvenient moments). Once you're satisfied your ribs are almost done apply your favorite barbecue sauce to one side, let them cook for a while and repeat the process on the other side. Repeat this process multiple times until you can't resist taking up your knife and fork and getting stuck in. Serve your baby back ribs with your favorite side items like french fries, baked potatoes, vegetable kebabs, coleslaw, whatever turns you on in fact. Write this recipe down and keep it somewhere.

Followed correctly, you'll enjoy this baby back rib recipe for the rest of your life.

It seemed that while I'd slept the classification scheme whereby information and knowledge was organized into subject classes had been superseded by computers. What was to happen, I wondered, to the generation of bespectacled librarians who had labored over both general classification schemes that covered the broad spectrum of subject classes, and the more complex subject-specific sub-classification series within a particular subject area?