You may also receive paid Bereavement Leave. Some agencies, such as the California Highway Patrol provide more than one leave plan. Within the California Highway Patrol officers are enrolled in either the Annual Leave Program or the Vacation/Sick Leave Program. Annual Leave credits can be used as vacation time off or as sick leave. Annual Leave hours accrue as follows: Length of Service Annual Leave Allowance 1 month - 3 years 24 hours per month 3 - 10 years 27 hours per month 10 - 15 years 29 hours per month 15 - 20 years 30 hours per month 20 years and over 31 hours per month Vacation/Sick Leave hours accrue as follows: Length of Service Vacation Leave Sick Leave 7 months - 3 years 20 hours per month 8 hours per month 3 - 10 years 23 hours per month 8 hours per month 10 - 15 years 25 hours per month 8 hours per month 15 - 20 years 26 hours per month 8 hours per month 20 years and over 27 hours per month 8 hours per month Medical, Dental, and Vision insurance plans are also usually offered. The Highway Patrol agency will contribute to comprehensive medical, dental, and vision health care plans for both their officers and the officers' families.

You may even find that your state's Highway Patrol offers numerous health care providers, allowing you to choose a plan which best meets your family's needs. the annual base salary for an officer upon graduation is approximately $61,452 and officers receive a five percent base salary increase each year for five years until they reach top step salary of $74,524. Overtime is usually compensated at one and one-half times the hourly salary, though definitions, and the availability, of overtime may vary. In the California Highway Patrol, overtime is defined as w ork in excess of eight and one-half hours per day, and the average officer may accrue approximately $10,000 of paid overtime annually .

Other pay incentives may also apply, such as the California Highway Patrol's 8-1/2 Hour Day Pay, wherein officers who work an eight and one-half hour workday are paid an additional 6.25% per pay period. Troopers who have special skills will also often receive extra payment to reflect the higher value they provide. Such skills include, but are not limited to, bilingual pay for certified bilingual officers who are assigned to an office with bilingual needs, canine pay for officers assigned to perform the duties of a canine handler, in vestigator pay for officers assigned full time as an investigator and m otorcycle pay for officers assigned to motorcycle enforcement duty.

Senior Officers, defined by a number of years of service, are often eligible to receive additional monthly income added to their base salary. In some states, you may be given a base salary while attending the state's Law Enforcement Academy. In addition, you will probably receive free room and board, and may even receive full health and dental benefits for themselves and their dependents upon fulfilling certain criteria.