The military skills and weapons of Herman Cortes and his Spanish soldiers easily overcame the Aztecs who were no match for them. They were finally defeated in 1521, as the colonizers of their fertile land arrived. The Spanish conquistadors (as the soldier / bandits were called) expanded their search for hidden treasures. Meanwhile the indigenous inhabitants were enslaved and forced into hard labor. Subsequent harsh treatment and malnutrition began to decimate them. European diseases cut their numbers down to 10% of what they once were. Those that survived became the ancestors of those very people that the Texas Border Patrol is still trying to hold back. Over time a form of apartheid emerged, as settlements were allocated for the Criollos (of pure Spanish blood), and the Mestizos (of Spanish and Native blood).

The powerful land-owning Criollos fought the Crown over taxes and other unpopular rules. Their decade-long rebellion was the catalyst for independence in 1821, after which they became the ruling class of Mexico. Shortly thereafter the Criollos captured the State of Texas, but lost it in a war that cost them modern-day California, New Mexico, Arizona, Utah and Nevada and Utah too. Following further wars, dictatorships and social upheavals, m odern Mexico has become the world's most populous Spanish speaking country. Its national identity is reflected in the colorful art, cuisine, languages, religious festivals and dances that are its people's heritage. To the east and west the Sierra Madre Occidental and Sierra Madre Oriental mountain ranges border Mexico's elevated high deserts, the southern reaches of which are criss-crossed by numerous valleys. Several smaller mountain ranges also divide the landscape of southern Mexico, with the Sierra Madre del Sur the most significant. There is also a narrow coastal plain along the Pacific Ocean coastline that rises to the foothills of the mountains.

By contract, the Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean coastlines are somewhat wider, and rise gently to merge with the interior vastness. The mountainous Baja Peninsula extends 1,200 kilometers (750 miles) southwards from the American border. Here are the "badlands" where Mexican peasants struggle and die in to find their future across the border. Here too are cruel and vicious drug-runners, who trade the lives of others for "a few dollars more". Across the border the few successful ones encounter their next obstacle, th e Rio Grande, which rises in the San Juan Mountains of Colorado, and then flows generally south for 3,000 kilometers to the Gulf of Mexico where it marks much of the Mexican border with the United States.

Texas is a huge State. In fact it's larger that many countries. it's impossible to encapsulate the visitor's experience in a few words. Nonetheless, you're likely to be greeted with a Texan "howdy" whenever you arrive, even when searching for relief from the winter chill and to enjoy fun in the sun. Texan beaches and coastal habitats offer exceptional fishing, camping, birding, sight seeing and even more opportunities. The State boasts more than 600 miles of sparkling coastline fronting the warm waters of the Gulf of Mexico.

A variety of seaside destinations and experiences for summer and winter travelers alike, is available in a region that averages more than 250 days of sunshine every year. History buffs just love to explore the many celebrated mansions of Galveston Island's historic Strand District when they are not outside enjoying a sunny day. Nearby, the fishing villages of Rockport-Fulton and Port Aransas have long been destinations for Texans and their guests from elsewhere looking for tranquil seaside relaxation. The Texan Central Gulf Coast offers attractions like the Texas State Aquarium and the Corpus Christis Museum - not to mention even more splendid beaches at Mustang Island. Moving on down the Texas coastline, visitors to the southern tip of the Texas coast are rewarded with the white sand dunes of the beach resort town of South Padre Island. Here nature tours and fishing, not to mention beach-combing abound. Texas with more than 650 species of birds to identify and see is arguably the birding capital of America. In fact, according to the American Birding Association, the Lone Star State is the nation's most popular spot in America for twitching.

The Great Texas Coastal Birding highway trail connects more than 300 birding sites as it runs along the Texas coastline from Beaumont all the way to the Rio Grande Valley. Other famed birding areas in Texas include the Texas Hill Country and the Piney Woods of East Texas. Inland, Texas Big Bend Country is the ideal location for outdoor adventure of a more rugged sort. This includes a three day gourmet rafting trip through one of the spectacular canyons of the Rio Grande River in Big Bend National Park. There, outdoor types enjoy imaginative and unexpected gourmet cuisine, while being serenaded by local and regional musicians around their campfires. Let's talk about the more than 900 golf courses available throughout the State, with n ew golf resorts joining an acclaimed list of existing resort courses and offering everything from seaside links to Hill Country mountain fairways. Indeed, whether the visitor is seeking adventure, nature, golf or other exciting activities, Texas is the ideal destination for everybody.

is specifically responsible for patrolling over 2,000 miles of coastal waters surrounding the Florida Peninsula and the island of Puerto Rico, in addition to the nearly 6,000 miles of Mexican and Canadian international land borders. It's agents work around the clock in all types of terrain and weather conditions while on assignments. They also work in many isolated communities throughout the United States itself, searching for evidence of border penetration and illegal refugees.. The original mission of the Border Patrol remains intact.

This is to detect (and prevent) the illegal entry of aliens into the United States. In collaboration with other enforcement agencies, the Texas Border Patrol helps maintain borders that work, as opposed to being porous. Their goal being the smoother flow of legal goods and immigration, while at the same time preventing human trafficking and contraband. In recent decades, a new priority has been added to the task of the US Customs and Border Control Authority of which the Texas Border Patrol forms an integral part. This is to prevent terrorists and their deadly weapons of mass destruction from entering their country. They pursue their patriotic goal undaunted by freezing northern winters and scorching desert heat along the Rio Grande, working tirelessly as vigilant protectors who are prepared, if need be, to sacrifice their own lives too.

Men and Women of the Texas Border Patrol When it was founded in 1924, the Border Patrol literally comprised a handful of mounted agents patrolling desolate areas along U.S. borders on their own. In those days, an agent's failure to report back in person unexpectedly some day was as good as a death certificate. These days, a dynamic US Customs and Border Control Authority work-force counts more than 11,000 men and women on its payroll. These often unsung American heroes are supported by sophisticated communication and other technology, advanced vehicles, sophisticated aircraft and other equipment that's often top-secret too. Will you be sent out on horse patrol to perfect your skills?

Or are you ready for city work, where you use sensor alarms and aircraft sightings to help you follow a suspect's tracks. You know that since 1994 the Border Patrol has made more than 15.6 million apprehensions nationwide - and that's a larger body of people than the current combined populations of Iowa, Missouri, and Kansas when counted back in 2000. Some of your major tasks could include conducting city patrol and transportation checks, maintaining traffic checkpoints along highways leading from border areas, and even advanced anti-smuggling investigations. You might also be sent out on border patrol, where the horizon is a barely discernible line of mountains, canyons and uninhabited deserts. You'll thank your stars that the Border Patrol utilizes a variety of equipment and methods to accomplish its mission in such diverse terrain. Technicians have been there before you and positioned electronic sensing gear at strategic locations along the border. This helps you detect people or vehicles entering the country illegally after receiving transmitted signals.

You carry with you night vision scopes and video monitors to help detect illegal entrants sneaking through at night. Other agents in your team patrol the border in vehicles, aircraft, boats, and even on foot. In other areas, patrol persons ride bicycles, horses, all-terrain motorcycles, and even snowmobiles.

A mentioned earlier air surveillance has even has been added to the Patrol mix. Linewatch and Signcutting Signcutting is the detection and the interpretation of any disturbances in natural terrain conditions that indicate the presence or passage of people, animals, or vehicles. At international boundaries and on coast lines in areas of Border Patrol jurisdiction, boundary watch operations are conducted on an ongoing basis to help prevent illegal entry and / or smuggling in of aliens into the United States - and also to intercept those who do enter illegally, before they can escape beyond the border area and vanish. Traffic Checkpoints All major highways leading away from borders are the subject of regular traffic checks. These aim to (1) detect illegal narcotics , (2) to detect and apprehend illegal aliens attempting to travel further into the interior of the United States (after evading detection at the border).

Transportation Checks These are buttressed and reinforced by inspections of passenger and freight trains, buses, commercial aircraft, and marine craft. In fact, any interior-bound conveyance may be suspect. Marine Patrol The Texas Border Patrol conducts border control routines from the decks of marine craft of various sizes, all a long the coastal waterways of the United States and Puerto Rico. Common interior waterways in Canada are subject to inspections by other elements too. All in all, the national Border Patrol maintains over 130 vessels. These include both blue-water craft and inflatable-hull ones - in addition to special operations components supplied to 16 sectors from headquarters. Bike and Horse Patrols Remote areas along the international boundary are ideal for ho rse units when they are inaccessible to standard all-terrain vehicles. Bike patrol aid city surveillance units, and may also be used across over rough terrain during linewatch operations.

Border Patrol Success Rates Texas Border Patrol has had considerable success in restoring a safe and semi-waterproof southwest border. Specific programs include: Operation Gatekeeper in San Diego Operation Hold the Line in El Paso Operation Rio Grande in McAllen Operation Safeguard in Tucson, and The Arizona Border Control Initiative Drug Seizures There has been a steady increase in smuggling activities across the South Texas border. This has pushed the men and women of the Border Patrol to extra efforts on the front line of the U.S. war on drugs.

The heightened presence of immigration law enforcement officers along the boundary has further harassed both alien smugglers and narcotic traffickers. In fact these days, the Texas Border Patrol performs a leading role among drug-interdicting organizations in the area in its remit. Last year Border Patrol Agents seized a total of more than 1.2 million pounds of marijuana, and over 12,300 pounds of cocaine.

Destroying street drugs valued at $1.4 billion is a proud achievement indeed.