Ever since its launch in the year 1926, SAT has actually helped of students in getting connected with college success and even today remains as the most reliable and effective measure of any student's readiness for college. The SAT tests the knowledge acquired and by students at the high school level along with its application and critical thinking skills that are necessary to succeed in a college. SAT facts The Scholastic Aptitude Test is offered seven times in one year in USA and six times in one year at international sites. The duration of the test is three hours and forty five minutes. It consists of 10 sections that are separately timed. There are three sections for testing critical reading and the time duration for these sections is 70 minutes in all. There are three sections for testing mathematics and the time duration for these sections is also 70 minutes in all. There are three sections for testing writing and the time duration for these sections is 60 minutes in all. One variable section tests which is unscored tests critical reading, mathematics, or writing and the duration is 25 minutes in all. The SAT Assesses critical thinking as well as problem solving skills in the fields of critical reading, mathematics and writing. The test includes three types of questions and these are multiple-choice questions, essay question and student-produced responses in mathematics only. Every college accepts the SAT as a measure of students' readiness for college. SAT scores allow the colleges to make a fair comparison of the applicants as it is used with GPAs as well as high school transcripts. Students get an access to scholarship opportunities by taking the SAT. Most of the colleges have a requirement of an admissions test like SAT. The students get the most comprehensive performance feedback. Most of the institutions require a writing assessment for the purpose of admission. Those students who opt for SAT automatically fulfill these requirements. As a matter of fact, the available data shows that the SAT material a swell as the time that has been allocated to each section are suitable for the intended test-taking students. It has been observed that on an average, the students who take SAT, are able to answer more than fifty to percent of the questions correctly. Eighty percent of the students are able to complete almost the entire test. A lmost all the students are able to complete at least seventy five percent of t he questions asked.