This burger with a bite was designed by cook-opera singer-and-musical performer Susan Mello. Picando means spicy. Although not a Portuguese classic, this burger nonetheless combines popular Portuguese flavors for a new twist. In 2003 it took top honors in Sutter Home's Build a Better Burger Contest. Don't stress if you can't find Portuguese sweet rolls, any eggy bread or sweet roll will work fine, even if its challah, .

Ingredients (Makes Four Servings) For the orange-garlic aIoli 1/3 cup mayonnaise 2 tablespoon fresh orange juice Pinch of orange zest 1 tablespoon of minced garlic For the burgers 1/2 pound ground chouriçoor linguiça 2 tablespoons olive oil 3 tablespoons Sutter Home Zinfandel 2 tablespoons tomato sauce 1 1/2 pound ground sirloin MMMMMMMMM!! Vegetable oil for brushing grill rack 4 Portuguese sweet rolls, toasted 1 cup cilantro leaves 4 sliced rings of fresh pineapple Let's Go Build Them Make the orange-garlic aIoli In a small bowl, combine the mayonnaise, orange juice, zest, and garlic. Chill until ready. Make the burgers Prepare a for moderate direct heat cooking. Heat the olive oil over medium heat in a small frying pan, and saute the ground chouri or lingui until lightly browned. Add the wine and tomato sauce, remove from the heat and let cool.

2. Combine the cooled chouri and the ground sirloin in a large bowl and form into 4 patties. 3. Brush the grill rack with oil when the fire is ready. Cook the patties on the gas or charcoal grill until they're done the way you like them turning only once. 4 to 5 minutes per side for medium-rare 6 to 8 minutes per side for medium. Longer if you dare! HINT Place the rolls cut side down on the outer edges of the grill until lightly toasted. d uring the last few minutes of the cooking process. 4. Spread the orange ali on the rolls. Cover each roll bottom with a bed of cilantro leaves, then top with a burger and a pineapple ring.

MMMMM Let me just fit my tonneau cover and I'm going in myself.

Anybody who's been out towing caravans and boats (and even high-sided trailers) knows just how important it is to have an unobstructed view behind. That way, if you're going slowly and holding up the faster vehicles, you can pull over onto the shoulder of the road.

Canyonlands he Colorado and Green Rivers divide the park into four districts: the Needles, the Island in the Sky, and the Maze and the rivers themselves. There, Canyonlands National Park preserves mesas and buttes carved by the Colorado River and its tributaries, and a colorful landscape of sedimentary sandstones eroded into countless red rock canyons. The National Park features one of the last, relatively undisturbed areas of the Colorado Plateau - a geological province carved out of vast sedimentary rock deposits, and a landscape of canyons, mesas, and deep river gorges that encompass much of the Colorado River and its tributaries. It possesses remarkable natural features that are part of a unique desert ecosystem, and is well worth a visit. Each area retains its own character and offers different opportunities for numerous outdoor activities.

However the districts share a primitive desert atmosphere overall. Remarkable geology is the foundation stone of Canyonlands' ecology. This is visible everywhere in cliff profiles that reveal millions of years of deposition and erosion. These rock layers continue to shape life in Canyonlands today, as their erosion influences elemental features like soil chemistry and where water flows when it rains. Canyonlands is also known as a "high desert." Its elevations ranging from 3,800 to 7,400 feet above sea level experience very hot summers, cold winters and less than ten inches of rain each year. Even on a daily basis, temperatures may fluctuate as much as 50 degrees.

We, though, approached the hill determined unanimously to give it our all. And why not? Our machinery was in tip-top condition. I just wish the fella just ahead of us in a long wheelbase Cherokee had owned a Titan instead. In case you don't know your 4X4, the general idea is to chug your way up the hill without flipping on a mogul and tumbling all the way back down again.

The Cherokee made it to the top and had begun inching further on, when his faithful steed gave out the loudest, ugliest ear-mashing bang I ever heard or wanted to! He stopped instantly (what else was he supposed to do?) and hollered out the window to us "what $5@#% broke" (or words to that effect. "Don't know," I said. "Gotta check it out first." I crawled under the front to see.

It looked like a broken front right axle joint but I don't know Cherokees and wasn't sure. "Could be the joint on your front right axle," I replied. "Best to back down slowly, this hill is damn STEEP."

And so he had to back down all the way, with just 20% of his breaking power because he was going in reverse. All we could here as we walked back down with him was inch ... clunk ... moan ... inch ... slide ....inch ... inch ... groan ... as he almost pushed the brake pedal through the floor (or so it sounded to me from where I stood). Finally, he was down at the bottom end of Hot Dog Hill. Safe and still alive. Now it was time to find out what had really happened.

Our new friend was surprisingly cool and calm about it. I guess these things come along for the ride when you own a Cherokee? "Hmmm ... let's see," he said. "What could have made all that noise? Ah HA!... broken front right axle joint. Okay ... then not so bad." It was time to get him off the trail and back in camp. "Put it in reverse and turn off the trail," we said.

"Makes sense," he said. But that was before we heard the clank ... grind ... grr ... clunk that followed. This was a no-go situation. The evening was already getting cooler. He was still stuck at the bottom of the hill. So I hitched his rig to the rear of my Nissan Titan and towed him the six miles back as if he wasn't even there. That's the thing about a Titie Nissan.

It's always full of surprises. Happy Trails and keep the shiny side pointed up, I say.

It's Time You Stepped Up to a Nissan Titan In this brochure, we've attempted to highlight all the advantages that a Nissan Titan truck continues to bring to the experienced 4X4 driver with a zest for fun and a sense of environmental responsibility. These include a superbly well-built machine with all those creature comforts that Americans deserve. But that's not all.

You can also customize your Titan (although the engineers at Nissan think they've already struck the perfect balance. This includes tweaking the suspension, fitting a smart tonneau cover and so on. The greatest gift of all that a Nissan Titan brings is the opportunity for freedom from the common drudge of everyday existence. You can just dump your bare essentials in the generous storage areas and head off in the early morning as the fancy takes you, secure in the knowledge that your wheels are going to get you effortlessly. Just imagine driving in the heated cab or your handsome new vehicle along an interstate that unwinds like a ribbon endlessly before you. You're in no hurry but know there's sufficient power behind you as the red ball of the sun rises over the distant hills.

Around seven in the morning you spot a diner that's already open and stroll in for their sunrise breakfast. As you're quietly enjoying it, you can's help listening to the conversation at a table nearby. "Now that's a mighty handsome truck. What is it?"

"The latest Nissan Titan with an even more powerful engine." "He's a lucky fellow, that guy that owns it. I wish I had one too."