Despite, or perhaps because of, its versatility, over half of all PVC manufactured is used in construction. In many areas, PVC has been replacing traditional building materials such as wood, concrete and clay, due to its low cost, durability, and ease of assembly.

The chemical structure of PVC is amorphous, which allows it to mix well with other substances. This means that the required physical properties of end products can be easily manipulated through the use of various additives, modifiers, and colouring agents. PVC is the only general purpose plastic that allows such free, wide and seamless adjustment of the required physical properties of products. This controllability is also extremely beneficial for recycling. The physical properties which can be manipulated include flexibility, elasticity, impact resistance, anti-fouling, prevention of microbial growth, anti-mist, fire retarding.

PVC is Durable PVC is highly resistant to oxidation, and maintains its performance for a long time. Measurements on underground 35 year-old PVC pipes taken by the Japan PVC Pipe & Fittings Association showed no deterioration and the same strength as new pipes, and re search in Germany has shown that pipes which have endured 60 years of active use buried in soil, were still fit for purpose and likely to have a life expectancy of 50 more years. More modern PVC pipes would be expected to last significantly longer. In the automobile industry, PVC fittings and exterior accessories showed almost no deterioration after 13 years of use, at which time the cars themselves had reached the end of their usefulness. Recovered products can even be recycled into the same products through re-converting, regardless of whether they are pipes or automobile parts, further lengthening the life-span of the product as the physical properties of these re-converted products are almost the same as with products made from virgin resin.

PVC is Resistant to Oil and Chemicals PVC's resistance extends to acid, alkali and almost all inorganic chemicals. PVC is also hard to dissolve in organic solvents, a lthough it does swell or dissolve in aromatic hydrocarbons, ketones, and cyclic ethers. This resistance makes PVC an eminently suitable material for exhaust gas ducts, sheets used in construction, bottles, tubes and hoses. PVC is Chemically Stable PVC shows little change in molecular structure, and little change in its mechanical strength, while at the same time its long chain polymers can be deformed by creep deformation; the continuous application of exterior force, even if the force is well below their yield point. PVC is Processable and Mouldable The processability of a thermoplastic material depends largely on its melt viscosity.

Since PVC's melt viscosity is comparatively high, it is not suitable for injection moulding of large sized products, but the high melt viscosity means that the viscoelastic behaviour of molten PVC is more stable and less dependent on temperature. This makes PVC a good choice for complex shaped extrusion profiling, such as housing materials, as well as calendaring of wide films and sheets, for products such as agricultural films and PVC leather. The exterior surfaces of PVC products display superior embossing performance - enabling a wide variety of surface treatments with textures ranging from enamel gloss to the completely de-lustred suede.

Since PVC is an amorphous plastic with no phase transition, moulded PVC products have high dimensional accuracy. PVC also exhibits excellent secondary processability in bending fabrication, welding, high-frequency bonding, and vacuum forming, as well as on-site workability. Paste resin processing such as slush moulding, screen printing and coating are convenient processing techniques that are feasible only with PVC. These processing methods are used in flooring, wall covering, automobile sealants and undercoating. PVC is Fire Retardant PVC's superior fire retarding properties , even in the absence of fire retardants, are due to its chlorine content. The ignition temperature of PVC is as high as 455 C, and the heat released when PVC does ignite is considerably lower that compared with PE and PP.

PVC therefore contributes much less to spreading fire to nearby materials even while burning. PVC is Decorable The polar groups in PVC allow for ease of colouring, printing and adhesion, and since PVC products do not require pre-treatment, a wide variety of decorative designs are possible; such as wood grain, marble, and metallic tones. Wall coverings and floorings, housing materials, furniture, home electric appliances, or even signboards and ads on airplanes, trains, buses and trams make full use of PVC's receptivity to decoration and colouring.

In the past, wood or metal have typically been king for fencing, but PVC is one of the most durable and affordable alternatives to expensive, high-maintenance wood and metal fencing. Its beautiful looks, durability, lack of maintenance and affordability have made PVC fencing the fastest growing part of the fencing industry over the past 15 years. Looks Exactly Like Wood or Metal PVC fencing is fabricated to look exactly how you want it. It can look just like real wood, white wood, or gloss white metal, and is difficult to tell apart from its wood or metal counterparts even up very close. For the design of your fence, you can choose from many traditional styles including: traditional/classic, picket fencing, privacy fencing, contemporary style pool fencing, and post and rail fencing.

All can come in a gloss white wood look, a metal look, or a real wood look. All look stunning. Maintenance Free Since there are no expensive wood treatments, no painting, no sanding, no replacement of cracked, broken and rotted boards, PVC fencing is virtually maintenance-free and will last for the life of the home. Because the color goes all the way through each piece, scratches will not show, and it will never weather, rot, crack, warp or chip. And UV protection means that the color will never dull or fade. In fact, with no maintenance at all, it has become preferred with community associations and commercial developments that need to install and maintain large runs of fencing. Ov er the past 15 years PVC fencing has quickly become the fencing of choice for many homeowners, and even large ranches.

Cost-efficient While the upfront costs of buying and installing PVC fencing can sometimes be slightly higher than materials like wood or metal, PVC fencing typically comes with a lifetime warranty. When you also factor in that the cost of maintaining the fencing is zero for the life of the fence, the slightly higher upfront cost is offset many times over by the long-term savings in maintenance. PVC fencing comes with a lifetime warranty. PVC fencing will last the lifetime of your home. PVC fencing has five-times the strength of wood and is four-times as flexible. There are never any chemical treatments needed with hazardous chemicals. PVC is nontoxic and 100% recyclable.

It has been estimated that more than 75% of PVC pipes will have a lifetime in excess of 40 years, with potential in-service lives of up to 100 years. Window profiles and cable insulation also benefit from long life-spans and studies indicate that over 60% of them will also have working lives of over 40 years. PVC can be cut, shaped, welded and joined easily in a variety of styles. Its light weight reduces manual handling difficulties. It is resistant to weathering, chemical rotting, corrosion, shock and abrasion, and is therefore the preferred choice for such varied products as scaffolding billboards, interior design articles, window frames, fresh and waste water systems, and cable insulation. PVC is a good insulator, and does not conduct electricity or heat. This makes it an excellent material for electrical applications, such as insulation sheathing for cables.

For window frames, PVC's heat insulation lifts it above alternatives such as aluminium,which is not nearly as effective at keeping heat from escaping. PVC's insulation properties quickly show a benefit to homeowners in reduced heating bills. PVC is non-toxic. It is a safe material and a socially valuable resource that has been used for more than half a century.

It is also the world's most researched and thoroughly tested plastic. It meets all international standards for safety and health for both the products and applications for which it is used. The study " A discussion of some of the scientific issues concerning the use of PVC " by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) in Australia concluded in 2000 that PVC in its building and construction applications has no more effect on the environment that its alternatives. Substitution of PVC by other materials on environmental grounds with no additional research or proven technical benefits will also result in higher costs.

For example, as part of a housing renovation project at Bielefeld in Germany, it has been estimated that the replacement of PVC by other materials would lead to a cost increase of approximately 2,250 euro for an average sized apartment. Restrictions on PVC use in construction applications would not only have negative economic consequences but also have wider social impacts, such as in the availability of affordable housing.