Should you get a Bowflex Power Pro Xtl? Do you need Bowflex replacement parts or a new Power Pro manual? Below discover: What the Power Pro has to offer How to get your Free "Repair/Reinforcement Kit" Where to get replacement parts What "new" Bowflex models have the same features Note- Bowflex stopped manufacturing the Power Pro in 2004. They recalled both thePower Pro and Bowflex Ultimate models due to injuries. If you own a Power Pro (or are thinking of getting one), Bowflex offers a Free Repair Kit whichreinforces all the key areas. For your Free Repair Kit, please call (888) 424-3020 Bowflex Power Pro - Key Features 60 exercises to choose from (without attachments) 210Ibs. of power rod resistance (upgradeable to 310Ibs. or even 410Ibs.) Attachments available Leg extension/leg curl Lat tower Squat/low pulley attachment The Different Power Pro Models The Power Pro XL comes with the leg extension/leg curl attachment The Power Pro XTL comes with the leg extension/curl and lat tower The Power Pro XTLU comes with the leg extension/curl, lat tower, and the squat/lower pulley attachment Pro & Con to Investing in a Power Pro Pro Price - You may find a lightly used Bowflex Power Pro at a bargain price (anything below $200). Value - With the Repair Kit installed, the Power Pro will be a great home gym. It offers everything youl need (60 exercises, up to 410Ibs. of resistance, attachments). Con Safety - Bowflex recalled the Power Pro and Bowflex Ultimate in 2004 due to 48 injuries. They offer a Free Repair Kit which reinforces their frames. Your Bowflex Story If you own a Bowflex home gym, we welcome you as a visitor to this website and we would really like to know what experiences you have had. Why not share your story with us so that others can learn and benefit from your experience. What you tell us will appear on our web page exactly the way you submitted it. You can even change your text by editing your contribution at any time . Some of the questions visitors like to ask are: How would you likely recommend your Bowflex home gym setup? Have you found that your Bowflex lives up to it's promises? Are the exercise routine sufficient for your needs? And the machine's resistance? How does your Bowflex compare to other home gyms you've owned? How has your Bowflex turned out in terms of your capital outlay? What difference has your Bowflex made to your general well being? Need to exercise but hate gyms? Then you simply have to consider going green! Surely we are all aware of the health benefits of regular exercise, particularly in our sedentary modern life-styles. And those of us over 50, exercise becomes even more important in preventing of health issues developing. High blood pressure is a real concern in the 50+ age group, as it can lead to heart disease and stokes. How can you find enjoyable exercises routines that don't involve going to a gym? Sure you can, by joining a local "Green Gym" - for example, physical activity through gardening and local environment improvement. It can only benefit your community too. Our program is endorsed by local health services, including doctors and nurses who recommend people to take part in a Green Gym. Participants plant trees, grow food on allotments and create nature zones. In the United Kingdom there are over 80 Green Gyms dotted around, and they are run entirely by volunteers. Join in for a minimum of three hours a week throughout the year and wee the benefits. The benefits of joining Green Gym are not only physical. A National Evaluation began in 2003, states that Green Gyms are good for emotional and mental well-being. In addition, they offer a great deal of help for traditionally excluded groups, such as the the elderly, disabled, unemployed and many more too. Using the words of one Green Gym participant: "Since becoming disabled I have been looking for a way to contribute toward the community, with the Green Gym I have been able to do this and help the environment as well - two for the price of one" Dr. William Bird first developed the concept in 1997 as part of the British Trust of Conservation Volunteers. This same organization is now simply known as the BCTV. Originally, it was a charity established in 1959, and it went on to develop a successful history of environmental conservation volunteering throughout the UK, as well as world-wide. Each Green Gym project is established by a local partnership involving BTCV, the local authority (local council), local health service and other community and voluntary organizations. New groups are initially organised and managed by a BTCV 'Project Officer'. There role is to facilitate local community involvement and provide training, support and guidance to community members. The expectation is that after 2 years, the group will be self-contained and self-governed by local volunteers. Latest news is that the BTCV has just launched a 'School Green Gym'. The idea is that children who don't take enough exercise, including obese children, can take part in the Gym as an after-school club or physical activity. For more information, write to BTCV, Sedum House, Mallard Way, Potteric Carr, Doncaster, DN4 8DB,Tel: 01302 388 888, or visit their website. Conclusion The world is a crazy place, and that is no maybe! We all like to enjoy ourselves and have fun, but there is a price to pay in terms of our health and well-being. Of course, we all have choices, but we normally hesitate to make the right selection. I'm not being judgmental, it is human nature to be frail and fickle at any opportunity - it's the way we are brought up! Knowing the Bowflex range well, I decided to provide my own feedback on the model under discussion - namely, the Bowflex Power Pro , a machine I'm well acquainted with: Pros:A truly complete home gym, effective. Cons:Leg attachment and lat attachment probably not worth it. Might not be good for beginners. The Bottom Line: Awesome home gym that's worth the price. For many years now I've been trying to stay in shape with aerobics and weight training. Since we moved to our new home, I now live way too far from a gym to make it practical to join, so I thought the Bowflex might be just the ticket to help me stay in shape at home. I took the plunge and purchased the Bowflex Power Pro online at www.bowflex.com I was told it would take about four weeks for delivery as they were backed up with orders. My Bowflex arrived almost exactly four weeks to the day I placed the order. It arrived in three separate boxes; a box for the Bowflex, a box for the lap attachment, and a box for the leg attachment. ~ Assembly I was worried about assembly, but with my better-half's help, I got it all put together in about 1-2 hours total. No real problems or huge frustrations with assembly. They even provide an 800 number to call if you need help assembling your Bowflex. ~ Printed Material The Owner's Manual and Fitness Guide contains descriptions of all the exercises you can do with the Bowflex, showing pictures of how to perform each exercise. I believe, however, prior experience with either free weights or using weight machines is important. Already knowing how to properly perform a triceps kickback, for instance, allows you to find the proper form on the Bowflex. Beginners could have trouble doing the exercises correctly just from looking at the pictures. There is a short video that comes with the Bowflex package that is helpful, but it doesn't demonstrate all the exercises. The Guide contains several different workout scenarios to fit your goals; e.g. The 20 Minute Better Body Workout, Advanced General Conditioning, 20 Minute Upper/Lower Body Workout, Body Building Workout, Circuit Training - Anaerobic/Cardiovascular Workout, True Aerobic Circuit Training, Strength Training. The Fitness Guide gives picture demonstrations of exercises in muscle groups, such as Chest Exercises, Shoulder Exercises, Back Exercises, Leg Exercises, etc. This is helpful while you are becoming familiar with the variety of exercises you can do with the Bowflex. A poster also came with the package showing a general workout which you can put on the wall for quick reference. The Fitness Guide contains a section on the Bowflex Body Leanness Program for losing weight, which includes how to calculate lean body mass and eating guidelines. ~ The Bowflex System The Bowflex resistance system utilizes "Power Rods". These Power Rods are made from a special composite material and covered with a black rubber coating. Each rod is marked with its "weight". The standard Bowflex comes with one pair of 5 pound rods, two pair of 10 pound rods, one pair of 30 pound rods, and one pair of 50 pound rods, for a total of 210 pounds of resistance. Additional sets of 50 pound Power Rods are available at extra cost. You choose the resistance weight you want to utilize in any particular exercise by hooking the Power Rods to the cables. And you may use one rod or several rods in any combination to get your desired resistance level. Important Note: The resistance weight of the rods is NOT the same as what you would be lifting with ordinary weights. With free weights, for instance, I can do a 15 pound biceps curl, but the with Power Rods I can do 20 to 25 pounds. The Bowflex bench is quite versatile. The bench can be set flat or at an incline. Once the bench is removed, which is very easy to do, the small seat that remains can be set to slide. This setting is used for the aerobic row, and for certain other exercises. I've found the bench to be comfortable and supportive. The resisted ab crunches on the bench at an incline are killer! The power rods give you a workout as intense as any you could get in the gym. And because it's so easy to change the "weight" and setups, you can keep your heart rate up throughout the entire workout. (After you become familiar with it anyway.) The hand grips have a strap that you can put around your ankle or foot for legwork. The ladies will love this! Great for leg raises, hip abduction, kickbacks, inner thighs. The Bowflex also comes with a leg press belt, which is used to do the leg press and seated hamstring curl exercises. Sometimes the belt can be uncomfortable, as it kind of cuts into your back, particularly when you're pressing a heavier weight. ~ Attachments The Bowflex Power Pro comes with a lat attachment and a leg attachment. I'm disappointed with the leg attachment, though. It adds a couple of feet to the overall length of the machine, and it only gives you two more exercises. And you can still hit the quads and hamstrings without it. Although if you're really into body building, the leg attachment definitely targets the legs more precisely. The lat attachment definitely targets the lats better, but it makes the machine about 8 inches taller. Keep this in mind for your space requirements. If you're into body building, then it's probably worth it, but I don't use it much. Another optional attachment that is available, but does not come with this model, is the "Purvis" Pec Bar. This attachment is designed to enhance the bench press and shoulder press exercises by changing the angle of resistance. I do not have this attachment, so I cannot comment on its effectiveness. ~ Folding Up the Bowflex If you need to move the Bowflex it folds up fairly easy. That's one good thing about not having bulky, heavy weights to deal with. The leg attachment must be removed before folding up the machine, and stored separately. And it's pretty bulky, so you need a good deal of space to store this attachment. The lat attachment does not need to be removed to fold up the Bowflex, but it's very tall with this attachment on, about 7 feet high, so make sure you've got the space to store it. But let's face it, if you can have it setup somewhere all ready to go, you're more apt to use it! ~ What I Don't Like I've had an annoying problem with one of the rubber stoppers on the cable which comes loose and goes past the pulley, creating a bumpy feel. I've jammed that sucker back in place as hard as I can, but it will still occasionally come loose. That bugs the heck out of me! Also included with the Bowflex are some stick-on traction pads. Talk about cheesy! The so-called traction rubbed off in about an hour. I don't know why they even bothered, because they are totally worthless. ~ Final Thoughts and Recommendations The Bowflex Power Pro is perfect for someone who cannot get to the gym and wants to stay in shape. For best results, as with any weight training program, you must be motivated and consistent. If you follow any of the Bowflex workouts described in the fitness guide consistently, you will most definitely see results. I would not recommend the Bowflex for someone brand new to strength training, as finding the correct position to work the targeted muscles can be difficult. Overall I think it's worth the price - a super home gym that doesn't take up a lot of space. 