Welcome to the City of Arkadelphia The Place for Healthy Relaxation - A Great Place to Call Home! This First Class City - with a population of eleven thousand souls - that our Pioneering Fathers called Arkadelphia is located on Interstate 30 about halfway between Little Rock and Texarkana (and also on Highway 7 about 35 miles from Hot Springs). There it nestle in the foothills of the Ouachita Mountains, in easy-going Clark County Arkansas. This location blesses it with seamless access to the amenities of larger cities, while at the same time enjoying the safety of a town that was publicized as "The Best Place to Live, Work, and Play" by 50 Fabulous Places to Raise Your Family . It surely has great recreational opportunities among its plentiful local facilities! Take Feaster Park (seventy-eight acres of playground, picnic areas, outdoor basketball courts, softball fields, pavilions, and public restrooms) for example. Feaster Trail is another great asset of the City - it is a paved and lighted trail for use by bikers, roller bladers , joggers, walkers and spans the length of the city. It is also home to the Arkadelphia Aquatic Park and Recreation Center (more later). Additional local recreation opportunities include the Caddo and Ouachita Rivers , and legendary Lake DeGray just minutes from downtown Arkadelphia. Our Arkadelphia is home to two universities named Henderson State and Ouachita Baptist (and an outstanding public school system) which bequeath it a strong history of education. Remarkably for a settlement of just over ten thousand residents, Arkadelphia High School and Perritt Elementary School have both been placed on the National Schools of Excellence list. If you fancy the unique combination of all those things that make a City great (and give the people of Arkadelphia and Clark County an extraordinarily favorable quality of life at the same time), then why not call Arkadelphia Your Great Place to Call Home too, and stop by soon? Ouachita Magic The first French settlers named the local river "Ouachita" in the early 1700's. It's said they were attracted to the fantastic climate and recreational opportunities. Since then, the local waterway has received numerous accolades as "one of the world's most beautiful rivers . . . he Ouachita River runs through the Southern States of Arkansas and Louisiana". This despite the fact that the Ouachita originates as a tiny mountain stream in the Ouachita Mountains near Eagleton, Arkansas. That's northwest of Mena, Arizona). The River Ouachita flows down-stream into Lake Ouachita near Hot Springs. There are lovely steamy pools there for skinny dipping - after the day has cooled and the chillier air tempts you - although I'll leave that to your temptation for now. After that, t he Oua chita passes through a series of placid lakes, before i t takes o n a different appearance as it flows to join the Jonesville, Louisiana , Tensas and Little Rivers after almost six hundred miles. Well then, you'll be glad to know the rated Two Rivers Canoe Rental Company offers short and long float trips. The short float is on the Caddo River The long float is on the Ouachita, while Custom float trips on either river are available as well. The long float on the Ouachita is a wonderful experience for both beginner or a family on an outing. In fact, the river's sparkling shoals and long, lazy pools make it irresistible especially for lovers wishing to pause for a nudie swim or or alfresco picnic along the way. Ouachita River two miles later. After that, you'll groove for six more miles until you disembark at the Ouachita River Bridge Parkland disembarkation point in Arkadelphia. Your eight mile journey took between 4 to 5 hours. What a great way to spend the day! And what a wonderful introduction to Arkadelphia . If that's a little too long for you, then you could start your journey at the Caddo River Bridge instead. For long floats, it's the Take-Out Point at the Ouachita River Bridge Park. When you get there, please feel free to use the generous picnic and camping areas that are set out among shady trees. Of course, you could also use one of the large gravel bars along the river that you come across for picnicking or even camping overnight. Don't fight with their spirits. They are happy in their heaven, and content with you, provided you treat their waterways with respect and love as they did. Sincerely, Two Rivers Canoe Rental, Inc. Location: Highway 7, Caddo River Bridge, Caddo Valley, AR rbrumley@tworiverscanoerental.com As our children ripen into young adulthood it's important to imbue them with a sense of health and wellness, and an appreciation on the physical companion that will accompany them on their journey while still here on earth. A little later on we'll discuss the five health clubs in Arkadelphia. For now, though, let's see what's available from the municipality for free. Here's how to get there. "Your Personal Gym Fitness Clubs where Real Men Strut Their Stuff" Let's face it, there's nothing more attractive to a woman (or to a man admiring himself in the full-length mirror) than a well-oiled muscled body that's sun-tanned to perfection. Love it or loathe it, you need Bodz Gym, if you're going to stay ahead. Where else will you find a better place for weight reduction and general toning? This is surely one Arkadelphia Gym that is becoming more and more popular with every age group. These include: Young boys fascinated by our healthy games and exercises Teenage lads that come to chill out with their peers Young men pumping iron Businessmen panting for our circuit Seniors after gentler fitness classes In short, Bodz Gyms have come a long way from being the stomping ground of fit young twenty somethings. In fact, people from all walks of life and from all weight and fitness ranges attend our classes. Whatever exercise regime you are looking for we are the gym of choice for you, and you can finally forget about exercising at home. While some gyms focus solely on keep-fit classes, and others around weights and weight training, we provide everything in between too! May We Suggest ... ? Please go and have a look around at the facilities available , before joining any gym including ours. You can no more buy a dog over the telephone than you can appoint a fitness service-provider blind. Do they have well-maintained, suitable, and modern equipment? Will you be able to achieve your weight loss and fitness goals there? And are the classes included in the price? It is a proven fact that having a partner to work out with you will help you push yourself, and keep you motivated so as not to drop out after just a couple of weeks! Y ou should consider persuading a family member or friend to join along with you - especially if they have similar goals as you do, and the same reasons for working out. The better gyms all offer a free initial trial period so you can get the feel of the place without committing to join. In fact, it is essential to attend the an exercise venue a few times before deciding. Your Free Checklist Is the range of equipment wide enough to help you target weight loss? Are there are multiple classes to attend? Are there options to suit everyone? Will you have a heart rate monitor to stay in your target heart rate? Are trainers available to offer advice on fitness and exercise? How modern is the exercise equipment? Joining a gym may be th e mental motivation that you need when beginning a weight loss program. Moreover y ou will always be able to exercise indoors, so the weather will not stop your fat from burning! Finally, can all the areas highlighted in your personal exercise program be achieved readily at the gym? The Flip Side If you feel uncomfortable exercising in public then gym is not the place for you to be. Gym membership is often expensive - and not for someone on a tight budget who is unwilling to see their program through. Health clubs may not suit everyone, but really are the only realistic solution. Why not try ours? Get out there and give it a go! In Conclusion Life's a package deal. In our case, the package includes body, mind and spirit (whatever the latter implies for you. And this personal trinity is like a family. When they don't get on together, disaster looms. When I was growing up in a posh church school, the headmaster only spoke in Latin to the boys. Can you handle that? In any case, his answer to most quandaries was mens sanus in sane corpore , or "a healthy mind in a healthy body". It seems he wasn't that concerned about our spirits. After all, we were a rebellious lot, and that was the priest's job. Nothing worried me particularly while I was at school. My body was disgustingly healthy (although I thought the other boys had nicer legs). My mind was good enough to just scrape through without studying at home. And my spirit? Well the pastor told me "Jesus loves you" and that was good enough for me. For a while I was swept up in early career success. The world was my oyster, and I was opening it for the money. Suddenly matters spiritual were packed away. Exercise. "What's that," I said? Inevitably, my body let me down at age forty. I entered my darkest hour lying alone on a hospital bed. Suddenly God Almighty came to me through the mists of pain. It was time to re-prioritize. In hindsight, the headmaster was right, except I would say "a healthy mind in a healthy body with a soul at peace". By all means enroll with a health club in Arkadelphia and give your body a real treat. But there's more to life than that. Strutting in the sauna and comparing bits is not all there is to life. You need to feed your mind with new ideas and fresh knowledge constantly. Someday, you too are going to have to confront the ultimate truth as you cross the great divide. When that happens your once-trim body will be for naught, and true knowledge encountered disinterested in your theories. The main questions will be "But Child, what did you do to make things better for the others, and "Did you care for my temple that was your body?" 