In California, taxes are given much value. The government of California recognizes that taxes are very important to execute the projects which would in turn be beneficial to the community. With the state of California in need of money as a result of their budget problems, all types of California tax audits and collection of back California taxes is on the rise. The auditing and tax evaluation in the California government is governed because there is a tendency or chance that there will be miscalculations if the taxes are not evaluated properly. If one of the California tax agencies attempts to reach into your pocket, you will need an experienced tax attorney on your side! The services of an experienced tax attorney would cost a lot. Sometime, the cost would depend on how much the subject tax is. There are several offices in California which are particularly designated for the collection, assessment and evaluation of taxes. The California Franchise Tax Board, Employment Development Department and the State Board of Equalization all have unique and complex tax laws and regulations that are different and distinct from the IRS. It is really needless to say that the officials working in these offices are trained to work their best in order to be able to maximize the profits that can be derived out of the people's and businesses' taxes. For example, in certain circumstances, the state of California can shut down your business and prevent you from operating as a result of a tax dispute. Generally, the IRS cannot do that. In addition, the California Franchise Tax Board may try and tax you as California resident even though you didn't live in California in the year in question. Each year, we successfully defend Clients against the Franchise Tax Board that were previously residents of California or owned property in California. Other offices pertaining to tax-related facilities would focus on the taxes of independent contractors and employees. These contractors are also taxed based on what the law stipulates and based on the income being raised by these contractors. Also, the California Employment Development Department may try to reclassify your independent contractors as employees, so that you must pay them payroll taxes and big time penalties. This is the most common EDD audit and many officials have successfully defended many clients with complex cases. Like the IRS, California has an audit appeals program and an Offer in Compromise program that can save qualified taxpayers many thousands of dollars. This means that there are also legal options where people who want to be able to cut their tax expenses can do so successfully. For example, a business and corporation will be able to cut its tax if it is able to have an effective and efficient way of having corporate social responsibility. Because of this fact, a lot of businesses have taken the opportunity of creating a separate branch or department in the business where people who are employed would have a focused work of thinking how the company can be of help to the society that it serves. People who happened to receive notices from the government agencies that are in charge of tax collection should always be able to address the issues by going directly to the office concerned. Otherwise, there will be a possibility of being involved in suit for the reason of tax delinquency. It is undeniable that the preparation for the payment of tax really entails a bit of skill and knowledge because some factors would just be too technical to be handled by a layman. In fact, there are specific courses on tax preparation to ensure that a person would have the necessary skills in order to prepare sufficient data and information. In California, there is an institution that is called the National Tax Training School. National Tax Training School is considered as the nation's foremost specialized tax training institute, offers this California Tax Education Council (CTEC) approved tax course. The course provided by this organization is especially developed for home study - a clear, thorough, fascinating program that teaches you everything you need to know to legally prepare tax returns. Upon completion of the tax preparation course, a person will be able to start and operate his own successful tax practice. Aside from it, there is also an opportunity to take on a well-paid job preparing tax returns in an accounting or tax preparation firm. Indeed, people have always had this goal of landing to a high-paying job. The tax course, written in an accessible style using non-technical language - guides the interested student through Taxation by way of easy-to-master lesson units. The student is also able proceed at his own pace and set his own schedule. This is in recognition of the fact that some students would be interested in learning the tax preparation course might be too busy with doing their current jobs that they would not really have the time attending demanding schedules of classes. A person can study in the comfort and privacy of his own home or office - without being tied to a rigid time frame, and without spending extra time, energy, or money traveling to and from classes. This course is also designed for those who are beginners and without prior knowledge on how tax really works. Even if an interested person does not have have previous knowledge of tax preparation, the California Tax Preparer Course, which consists of our nationally accredited Federal Individual Income Tax Course and the required additional California state instruction , will provide every student with the proper training - covering all pertinent phases of the Federal and California State Individual and Small Business income tax so you can become a licensed Tax Preparer. To be approved by the Tax Board, the course is required to include several important topics to ensure that the people who end up getting certification from the institution would really be competitive in the field. Some of the main topics covered in the course: Business and Non-business Income and Deductions Itemized Deductions and Tax Computation Methods Medical Expenses and Charitable Contributions Personal Exemptions and Taxpayers' Filing Status Items Included and Excluded in Figuring Gross Income Gains or Losses on the Sale or Exchange of Property Basis Capital Gains and Losses Business and Casualty Losses Bad Debts Tax Consequences of the Sale of Taxpayers' Residence Self-Employment Tax Tax Credits (EIC, Business, Child Credit, Education etc.) IRAs and Self Employed Pension Plans Depreciation and Depletion Payroll Taxes and Income Tax Withholding Estimated Tax Alternative Minimum Tax The program is proud to have been approved by The California Tax Education Council. Tax preparers in the state of California are required to be registered. ThNational Tax Training School is approved by the California Tax Education Council as a provider for Qualifying and Continuing Education training that meets the CA requirements. Upon successful completion of this course we will submit your completion information directly to CTEC.