These joints allow limited movement or just respond to twisting and to compressing in order to prevent injury. They have two classifications which are as follows: 1b. Symphyses Hyaline cartilage is the responsible of roofing two bones of symphysis joint. When this hyaline cartilage becomes saturated with collagenous fibers, Fibrocartilage forms. A good example of this process and joint is the inter-vertebral joints formed by the inter-vertebral disks. And each individual joint throughout the inter-vertebral junctures can only achieve limited motion. Although, this limited motion can form a large scale motion based on what the spine is capable of. 2b. Sychondroses Synchondroses joints are the Cartilaginous joints which have layers of hyaline cartilage in between the adjoining bones. Many of these joints are only temporary and typically found in the areas in the body that aren't fully developed yet. Examples of sychondroses joints can be seen in the rib cage. Those are the ribs' ends and coastal cartilage that attaches those ribs to the sternum. As with older people, ossification, which is the process of bones' fusion, is not uncommon to begin or even be completed and that restrict the motions associated with the ribcage. Out of all the joints, these joints are the most complex and the most widely varied joints in the human body. Synovial joints provide one of the most noticeable bodily movements which is the knee bending. Its main responsibility is to allow the body to have freedom when making movement and to have smooth motion. The synovial joints are categorized into: hinge condyloid ball and socket pivot gliding saddle There are basic factors that determine the synovial range of motion. The muscles sizes and span contribute to either allowing a bit movement or great movement. The overall condition of the body can also determine a range of motion. If a small body has weak muscles, it is less likely to maximize the range of motion compare to a larger body with strong muscles. Obesity is also a factor that interfere with the range of motion. Synovial fluid is a capsule that protects the Synovial joints. This egg-white -like fluid that lubricate joints is composed of tough and dense regular connective tissue that can withstand the constant need for great movement. Synovial fluid has a lesser concentrations of phagocytic cells responsible for joint cleansing from any cartilage debris and has a high concentration of albumin and hyaluronic acid. Gender can also be another factor in some rheumatic diseases because some types of arthritis are only common to women. The male-female hormonal differences may play a role in the development of these type of arthritis. This disease is the leading cause of disability of older people over the age of 55. Who is Affected Rheumatic diseases can affect all people. In the U.S., there are more than 46 million people have arthritis or other rheumatic diseases. And by 2020, it is expected that this number will reach 60 million. Compare to heart disease, diabetes, or cancer, Rheumatic ­diseases are a more known and frequent cause of limiting one's activity--either indoor or outdoor. Although everyone can be a target of rheumatic conditions. These are more common among certain populations. Such as: 9 out of 10 people who have lupus are women. 9 out of 10 people who have fibromyalgia are women. Rheumatoid arthritis occurs 2 to 3 times more often in women than in men. Systemic lupus erythematosus, which is common more in women than in men, occurs more often in Hispanics and African Americans than in Caucasians. Scleroderma is more common in women than in men. Gout is more common in men than in women. Although after menopausal period, gout begins to rise in women. Spondyloarthropathies Principally, this group of rheumatic diseases affects the spine. The Ankylosing spondylitis - one common form of this- may as well affect the shoulders, hips, and knees and tend to affect people in their late adolescence or on their early childhood. Another form of spondyloarthropathy is called Reactive arthritis, which is sometimes referred to as Reiter's syndrome. This Reactive arthritis develops after having an infection from the lower urinary tract, bowel, or other organ. Commonly, it is associated with skin rashes, mouth sores, and eye problems. may also affect internal organs, such as the kidneys and lungs. Tendinitis (tendonitis) This condition refers to the inflammation of tendons - the tissue's tough cords connecting the muscle to the bone-- due to overuse, injury, or a rheumatic condition. This type of arthritis produces pain and tenderness and may give restriction to the movement of nearby joints. As the older people always say, the best cure to any kind diseases is prevention. That's why the best treatments for rheumatic diseases are exercise, proper diet, rest , relaxation, and lastly, medication. Treatments depends on the degree of your disease. You can have splints or braces and in severe cases, surgery may be needed. Here are some tips on how to ease rheumatic pains: Therapies Heat therapy can increase the flow of your blood, your tolerance of pain, and flexibility. Its treatment can involve: microwaves moist heat paraffin wax ultrasound You can apply moist heat by placing warm towels or hot packs on the affected area or you can as well take a warm bath or shower. Microwaves and ultrasound may be needing physical therapist support. Cold therapy can relieve inflammation and muscle spasms by numbing the nerves around the joint. This therapy can involve ice massage cold packs soaking in cold water You can as well look for over-the-counter sprays and ointments that can be used to cool the joints and skin. Mobilization therapies include gentle, steady pulling, massage, and manipulation. When you choose to do this by a trained professional, this kind of therapy can help control pain, can increase your joint motion, and can improve your muscle and tendon flexibility. Hydrotherapy can help relieve pain by exercising or relaxing in warm water. The water helps relax tensed muscles and , thus relieve pain. Relaxation therapy helps reduce pain through different ways of releasing muscle tension. Your doctors or physical therapists can teach these techniques. Medications The kind of medication that you have to take depends on the rheumatic disease you have. You have to remember that these medications don't actually cure your disease rather they just limit the symptoms.However, infectious arthritis and Lyme disease are exempted because they can be cured if treated early and if medications are used properly. If you are taking any medication, either ­prescribed or over the counter, you should always follow your doctor's instructions. Don't forget to notify your doctor immediately if the medicines you're taking are giving unnecessary effects like upset stomach, nausea, or headache. In some cases, your doctor may decide to delay medications until a definite diagnosis is made, because medications can sometimes hide important symptoms or signs that can interfere with diagnosis. Here are some commonly used medications to treat rheumatic diseases: NOTE: Brand names that are mentioned here are examples only and does not mean they are endorsed by the National Institutes of Health or any other Government agency. Always consult with your doctor before taking any medications. Analgesics - Analgesics (pain relievers) like acetaminophen (Tylenol) are the commonly used medicine in reducing pain caused by many rheumatic conditions. Topical analgesics - These are the common medicine being rubbed on the sore muscles or joints in the forms of creams or ointments. These are advisable for people who can't take oral pain relievers. Counterirritants - The active ingredients of this medicine are menthol, wintergreen oil, eucalyptus oil, or camphor. They irritate the nerve endings in the skin distracting the brain to feel the pain source. Eucalyptamint and Icy Hot are the common products having those ingredients. Salicylates - This blocks the chemicals in the body that contribute pains. Its main ingredient works like aspirin. BenGay, Aspercreme, Flexall are some medicines where Salicylates are found. Capsaicin - This natural ingredient is found in cayenne peppers and is effective in relieving pains. You can try this in Zostrix and Capzasin-P. Biologic response modifiers - These are a new family of genetically engineered drugs used to block specific molecular pathways of the immune system involving inflammation. Typically, they are administered through at home by injection or at a clinic by intravenous infusion. Yet, these drugs can cause problem to people who are prone to having frequent infection, because they work by suppressing the immune system. The commonly prescribed biologics are adalimumab, abatacept, etanercept, rituximab and infliximab. Hyaluronic acid substitutes - Depending on the product that you'll use, you can have a series of three to five injections administered directly into the affected knee or hip- that provide a temporary relief. Hyaluronic acid products like Hyalgan and Synvisc has the ability to mimic a body substance that naturally occurred. They serve as joints' lubricant and is believed to be deficient in joints with osteoarthritis. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) NSAIDs are medications useful for both pain and inflammation. They are thought to work by blocking the movement of certain hormones called prostaglandins that cause inflammation and pain in the body. There are many NSAIDs that can be used for arthritis treatment and some over-the-counter are aspirin, Advil®, Motrin®, Aleve®, and ketoprofen. Some examples of NSAIDs that can be used to treat arthritis include: Ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil) Indomethacin (Indocin®) Celecoxib (Celebrex®) Meloxicam (Mobic®) Naproxen (Naprosyn®) or naproxen sodium (Aleve, Anaprox®, Naprelan®) Etodolac (Lodine®, Lodine® XL) Nabumetone (Relafen®). Diclofenac (Voltaren®, Cataflam®) NSAIDs most common side effects: Abdominal pain (stomach pain) Nausea Dizziness An unexplained rash. Heartburn Less common, but serious, side effects: heart attack or stroke congestive heart failure an allergic reaction People with heart diseases or stomach ulcers may be at a higher risk of side effects while taking NSAIDs , so people should take NSAIDs with caution or not at all. Surgery Doctors may require surgery: to repair damage to a joint after injury or to restore function or to relieve pain in a joint damaged by arthritis. There are many types of surgery performed for arthritis and these are: Anthroscopic surgery - This surgery views the joint using a thin lighted scope being inserted through a small incision on the joint. Osteotomy - This is a surgery wherein a bone section is removed to improve the joint's position. Bone fusion - This surgery removes the joint surfaces from the ends of two bones forming a joint. And then, the bones are screwed to be held together until they grow to form one rigid unit. Arthroplasty - This surgery is also known as total joint replacement. The damaged joint is being removed and replaced by an artificial one. Again, there is no special "diet for arthritis"; however, it is important that people with this condition eat a well-balanced diet and control their weight. When we say well-balanced diet, it includes the right amount and food like fruits, vegetables, grains, and fat-free or low-fat milk. You should also limit or stop alcohol and exercise regularly. Limit foods with saturated fats, trans fats, cholesterol, salt, and added sugars will also increase your chance of easing rheumatic pains and diseases. ATTAINING HEALTHY BONES STARTS IN YOU! 