Few historians agree when precisely the Renaissance Era began. It is clear that England (for example) was still a medieval society in the early 15th Century. Nonetheless the year 1400 remains a useful peg-point in time, because it was around then that the Renaissance first flourished in Italy.

Within this overall trend there were different schools of thought, and no single philosophy or ideology dominated the intellectual life of Renaissance thinkers (for in a sense they were reborn too). While the earliest humanistic thinkers had stressed a flexible approach to the problems of society - and an active life in service of one's fellow human beings - by the second half of the 15th Century great minds inspired by Marsilio Ficino of the Florentian Platonic Academy had turned to increasingly metaphysical speculation. The love of Plato however did not replace affection for Aristotle at Renaissance Universities even though it was favored by the Humanistic School. Instead, a movement called sought to combine these two apparently conflicting values and find common cause for truth. In truth Renaissance Science was largely retrospective though, focusing as it did on the study of medicine, physics, and mathematics where it depended on ancient masters such as Euclid, Galen and Aristotle. However experimental anatomical and alchemical research did lead to some fresh discoveries both within and outside hallowed university settings. There was however also a darker side to the Renaissance Era too, for beneath the "gold plate" of magnificent works of art and the outrageous court life as described by contemporaries, the Renaissance had a down side.

Deaths by plague, pestilence and violence were frequent and wa rfare a common occurrence. Confusion in Church and Government about the difference between science and religion on the one hand, and the occult, magic, and astrology on the other was widespread. Many fine minds were tortured during officially sanctioned persecution pogroms and hunts for witchcraft.

Sometimes the only way to end it was with a false confession that lead to a hideous death. The resultant cynicism lead to intellectuals like Giovanni Francesco Poggio Bracciolini and Desiderius Erasmus writing often savage humanist critiques. Sir Thomas More proposed the radical solution of a classless, communal society in his Utopia.

This was to be bereft of Christianity, and guided by the dictates of natural reason alone. Nicolo Machievelli - some say he was greatest Renaissance thinker of them all - proposed a realistic science of human nature aiming at the reform of Italian society and the creation of a secure civil life. Machiavelli's republican principles inspired by his pragmatic view of power politics and of the necessity of violent change, were among the Renaissance Era's most significant contributions to the modern world that was gradually evolving. At the same time that this dark world of conflict was taking hold, artists of the Renaissance lived in a distinctive world of Renaissance styled architecture, literature, art and music. Among these "universal men" were Leonardo da Vinci, Leon Battista Alberti, Rabelais, Montaigne, and William Shakespeare.

Renaissance Music One of the most pronounced features of transition into the Renaissance Music was increasing reliance on the interval of the third. Thus Polyphony - already in use since the 12th Century - became increasingly elaborate throughout the 14th century owing to exploration of the independent voice. This was especially noticeable in the work of John Dunstable , at least in part through the local technique of faburden in which a chant melody and a written part predominantly in parallel sixths above it are ornamented by one sung in perfect fourths below the latter.

Indeed, to the untrained ear English music of those times may at first sound almost bizarre to modern, unschooled audiences.

Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina (1526-1594) In Palestrina one encounters the most famous representative of the Roman School which hugely influenced music in the Catholic Church. Perhaps this was because its voicing was both balanced and beautifully harmonized. Certainly the smooth purity of Palestrina's polyphonic music is a perfect accompaniment to spiritual meditation.

Palestrina was born of poor parents and little is known of his early life. He is said to have earned his living as a church-singer initially. He probably studied in Goudimel's school. Later he was an organist in Palestrina (the town of his birth) and then magister puerorum (master of the boys singers) in the Cappella Giula with the title Maestro della Capella della Basilica Vaticana.

Orlando de Lassus (1530-1594) Orlando de Lassus was a great master of the smooth polyphonic style. His major contribution was his beautiful motets (sung pieces) which combined superb French-style lyrics with the rich northern style of polyphony overlaid by expressive Italian melodies. His 2,000 written works embrace all styles of music ranginf from the French, Latin, English, and German schools. Giovanni Gabrieli (1553-1612) Last but not least Giovanni Gabrieli formed a second bridge between the Renaissance and the Baroque Era. He was a master of the style of the Venetian School who created stunning sacred works through adroit use of the unusual layout of the San Marco Church. This included a new contrapuntal device called the antiphone. Using this, a choir or small grouping of music instruments was first heard on the left, followed by a response from another grouping on the right).