Iron is an element with the symbol Fe (derived from the Latin word ferrum ) and atomic number 26. It belongs to group 8 and period 4 of the periodic table. This element is lustrous and silvery in appearance. Iron is the most abundant element found in the core of red giants; it is also the most abundant metal in iron meteorites and in the dense metal cores of planets like Earth. Iron and its alloys are a part of the ferromagnetic materials that we use in our everyday life. Occurence Iron is the sixth most abundant element found in the universe. It makes up about 5% of the Earth's crust and the earth's core consists largely of an iron-nickel alloy that constitutes 35% of the Earth's mass as a whole.As a result, it is the most abundant element on Earth, but at the same time it is the fourth most abundant element in the Earth's crust. Most of the iron found in the crust occurs in combined form with oxygen as iron oxide minerals like as hematite and magnetite. The reason for the red color of the planet Mars is thought to be its soil that is rich in iron-oxide soil. Applications Of all the metals, iron is the most widely used and it accounts for 95% of worldwide metal production. Its high strength and low cost make it indispensable in a number of engineering applications like construction of machinery, machine tools, automobiles, structural components for buildings and hulls of large ships. As pure iron is quite soft, it is generally used in the form of steel. Iron in biology Iron is essential nutrient for nearly all the known organisms. In cells, iron is stored in the centre of metalloproteins and it can catalyse production of toxic free radicals. Deficiency of iron can lead to anemia. In animals, plants and fungi, iron is incorporated into the heme complex which is an essential component of cytochrome proteins and of oxygen carrier proteins like hemoglobin, myoglobin and leghemoglobin. Inorganic iron also contributes to redox reactions in iron-sulfur clusters of a number of enzymes like nitrogenase and hydrogenase. Non-heme iron proteins include the enzymes methane monooxygenase , ribonucleotide reductase, hemerythrins and purple acid phosphatase. Iron distribution has been found to be heavily regulated in case of mammals because iron has got a high potential for biological toxicity. Iron distribution is also regulated because a number of bacteria require iron. Restricting its availability to bacteria can help in preventing or limiting infections. This is the reason for the relatively low amounts of iron found in mammalian milk. A major component of this regulation is the protein called transferrin, which binds the iron absorbed from theduodenum and then carries it in the blood to the cells. Crohn's Syndrome and Celiac Disease are associated with gastrointestinal malabsorption. This may impair the absorption of iron and iron supplementation may be required if these conditions lead to iron deficiency anemia. Women taking oral contraceptives generally experience less bleeding during periods and these women have a lower risk of developing iron deficiency. On the other hand, women who opt for an intrauterine device or IUD in order to prevent pregnancy generally experience more bleeding and as a result, they have a greater risk of developing iron deficiency. In case the laboratory tests indicate iron deficiency anemia, then iron supplements should be recommended. Eating nonnutritive substances like dirt and clay, which is often referred to as pica, is sometimes found in persons who have iron deficiency. Some researchers believe that such eating abnormalities may give rise to iron deficiency while some other researchers believe that iron deficiency may increase the likelihood of such eating problems. People who are suffering from chronic infectious or malignant disorders like arthritis and cancer may also become anemic but the anemia that accompanies inflammatory disorders differs from iron deficiency anemia and in such a case the patient may not respond to iron supplements. Research indicates that inflammation may lead to the over-activation of a a protein that is involved in iron metabolism. This protein may inhibit the absorption of iron and reduce the amount of iron that circulates in the blood, thus resulting in anemia. Sources of dietary iron include red meat , poultry, fish , lentils , beans , green leafy vegetables , chickpeas, tofu, black-eyed peas, fortified breakfast cereals and fortified bread. Low amount of iron is found in molasses, farina and teff. Iron present in meat is more easily absorbed as compared to the iron present in vegetables. Iron provided by dietary supplements is in the form of iron fumarate, although iron sulfate is much more cheaper and at the same time, it is also absorbed equally well. Despite being absorbed to a smaller extent lemental iron, is quite often added to foods like breakfast cereals or to "enriched" wheat flour. It is listed as "reduced iron" as a part of the list of ingredients. Maximum iron is available to the human body when chelated to amino acids and iron in this form is upto fifteen times more bioavailable as compared to any other. It is also available for use in the form of common iron supplement. Amino acid chosen for this purpose is often the cheapest and most common amino acid, glycine, resulting in "iron glycinate" supplements. The RDA for iron varies according to age, gender, and source of dietary iron. Infants may require iron supplements in case they are breast-fed. Iron intake is badly affected by low nutrient density foods, that are high in calories but low in vitamins as well as minerals. Sugar sweetened sodas and most of the desserts are examples of low nutrient density foods. So are the snack foods like potato chips. 5,000 children and adolescents who were between the ages of 8 and 18 were surveyed and it was found that low nutrient density foods made a contribution of 30% of daily caloric intake, along with sweeteners and desserts jointly accounting for approximately 25% of caloric intake. Those adolescents and children who consumed fewer "low nutrient density" foods were much more likely to consume the recommended amounts of iron. Data provided by "The Continuing Survey of Food Intakes" by Individuals was used to examine the effect of major food and beverage sources and added sugars on micronutrient intake of U.S. children aged between 6 to 17 years. Researchers found that the consumption of presweetened cereals, fortified with iron, increased the likelihood of meeting recommendations of iron intake. Human beings may experience iron toxicity for levels above 20 milligrams of iron for every kilogram of body mass, and 60 milligrams per kg is a lethal dose. Over consumption of iron may be the result of children consuming large quantities of ferrous sulfate tablets that are intended for adult consumption. For children under fourteen years old the Upper Intake Level or UL is 40 mg/day. Increase in The Need of Iron During Pregnancy During pregnancy, the nutrient requirements are increased in order to support maternal health and fetal growth. Iron requirements of pregnant women are almost double as compared to those of non-pregnant women due to increase in blood volume during pregnancy and due to the increased needs of the growing fetus and also due to the blood losses which occur during delivery. In case the iron intake is unable to meet the increased requirements, then in that case, iron deficiency anemia may occur. The iron deficiency anemia during pregnancy is generally responsible for significant morbidity like premature deliveries and birth of infants with low birth weight. Low levels of hemoglobin or hematocrit may be an indication of iron deficiency. Hemoglobin is the protein found in red blood cells that carries oxygen. On the other hand, hematocrit is the proportion of the entire blood that is made from red blood cells. Nutritionists have estimated that more than half of the pregnant women all over the world may have their hemoglobin levels which are consistent with iron deficiency. In case of pregnant women, the RDA for iron increases to 27 mg/day but unfortunately, the results of NHANES survey indicated that the median iron intake among pregnant women was almost 15 mg per day. This indicates that more than half of the surveyed group consumed less iron as compared to its recommended levels each day. Iron supplementation is recommended during pregnancy for helping pregnant women to meet iron requirements of their body. Routine low-dose iron supplementation of 30 mg/day is recommended by the CDC for all pregnant women. It should begin with the first prenatal visit. Obstetricians generally monitor the requirement of iron supplementation during pregnancy and they provide individualized recommendations to the pregnant women. Iron Requirement of a Baby A baby requires more iron as compared to an adult man. This is due to the fact that during the first year, the weight and blood volume of a baby triples. In fact the growth rate of a baby during the first year is faster than the growth rate at any other time of his life. During the the first two years the size of a baby's brain reaches eighty percent of its adult size. Babies require lots of iron to carry oxygen around in their blood and to help in the development of brain cells. Lack of iron at this crucial stage can impair intellectual development and in fact it is often irreversible. Those children who have serious iron deficiency during the first two years of their life, are unable to learn well once they start going to school. Iron also helps in keeping the immune system strong, thus resulting in lesser colds, coughs and tummy bugs. It has been found that babies who are initially fed commercial baby food have lesser iron deficiency as compared to those whose first meals are homemade. Almost fourteen percent children who are under two years of age, suffer from iron deficiency. We have a tendency to think that homemade food is always better than bought. Due to this reason, you may be surprised with these results. These results show that people need to be quite careful to include enough iron-rich meat as a part of their homemade baby food. It must be mentioned that homemade baby food is actually great but we need to make sure that there should be enough iron in it by including some chicken, meat, liver or fish every few days. The research has also proved that the babies who ate fruit with a meal, instead of in between the meals, had lesser iron deficiency. This is due to the fact that vitamin C helps in the absorption of iron in food. Iron Rich Home made foods for Babies Keep lamb's liver frozen. It must be noted that lamb's liver is rich in iron and also vitamin A and remember that too much vitamin A may damage the liver. So your 7-12 month old baby should be fed not more than three teaspoons in a week. Steam a few small chunks of pumpkin or carrot with some grated liver and either puree or mash. This should be thinned with cooled boiled water or with vegetable juice. Take some vegetables from a cooked stew and a piece of meat before seasoning and blend. Avoid using sauce in case it is made from stock as it is quite salty for a baby Finely chop roasted meat, chicken or pork and add to some mashed vegetables. Try roast pork, pur ed pumpkin and apple or roast chicken along with mashed carrot. Bake fresh salmon or some other fish and mix it with mashed vegetables. Cook red lentils in water till they are tender. Mix them with mashed kumara, spinach and pumpkin. It must be noted that vegetarian infants will need more iron-rich foods due to the fact that they absorb only about 10% of the iron content in vegetarian food. Babies build up their stores of iron in the last trimester. In case they are born full-term, then they have enough iron for about six months. After six months, a baby's iron stores are depleted. So they should start eating iron fortified baby cereal along with vitamin C-rich fruit apart from the breast milk or formula. By the time they are 7-8 months old, they need to be eat some iron-rich food and it should be preferably meat and chicken which should be consumed at least three times in a week. At this age, they can also be given egg yolk. Some pur ed fruit may be given at the same meal in order to increase the iron absorption. Premature babies obviously have smaller iron stores. Due to this reason, they need iron earlier as compared to full term babies. These supplements can be prescribed by a doctor for some medical reason. Iron can also taken as a dietary supplement and it can be purchased in supermarkets etc. These categories of iron should not be confused. Administration of Iron Supplements Iron can be supplemented by using various pharmacological forms, like ferrous sulphate which is the the most common and the cheapest salt, e.g. Feratab, Fer-Iron, Slow-Fe. It can also be supplemented in complex with gluconate, carbonyl iron, dextran and other salts. Sometimes ascorbic acid is also added for better absorption. Iron supplementation therapy is generally an oral therapy and parenteral iron therapy which is intravenously or intramuscular is given only when resorption is seriously compromised which may be either in case of illnesses, or when a patient is unable to swallow or when benefit from oral therapy is not expected. It is more expensive and at the same time it has increased morbidity. As iron stores in the human body are generally depleted, and as there is also a limit to the quantity that a body can process (approximately 100mg per day) without iron poisoning, this therapy is a chronic therapy which may take 3 to 6 months. Patients who are at risk of acute complications may be the candidates for transfusion. Patients who have anemia of chronic disease may be able to benefit from erythropoietin. Side effects of taking iron supplements are generally diarrhea or constipation alongwith epigastric abdominal discomfort. Side effects decrease if these are taken after a meal, but it must be kept in mind that there is an increased risk of their interaction with other substances. Side effects are also dose-dependent, and to reduce the side effects, the dose can be adjusted. The patient may also notice that his/her stools become blackish in color. This is totally harmless, but patients have to be warned about it to avoid unnecessary concern. When iron supplements are provided in a liquid form, there may be a reversible discoloration of and this may be avoided by using a straw). Intramuscular injection is painful and brown discoloration might be noticed. Treatments with ferrous sulfate have got higher incidence of adverse events as compared to ferric hydroxide poly maltose complex or iron bis-glycinate chelate. Interaction of Iron Supplements with Other Drugs Iron results in the formation of an insoluble complex with many other drugs, thus resulting in decreased absorption of not only iron but also the other drug. Examples of these drugs include tetracycline, penicillamine, levodopa, methyldopa, quinolones and bisphosphonates. The same can also occur with elements present in food, like calcium. Absorption of iron is found to be better at a low pH levels or in an acid environment. Resorption is decreased in case there is a simultaneous intake of phosphates, antacids etc. Tannins from food, like tea and saw palmetto also reduce the absorption of iron. If it is taken after a meal, then there are lesser side effects but there will also be less absorption due to the interaction and pH alteration. An interval of two to three hours between the iron intake and the intake of other drugs is advisable.