Prehistoric Park DVD Set This is another best seller. Nigel Marven, a zoologist and wildlife expert, travels to capture the most amazing creatures ever to exist. You can experience the hostile climates of the Cretaceous, Pleistocene and Paleozoic time periods and learn what killed these incredible creatures as Marven brings them back to the most incredible zoo never to exist, Prehistoric Park. T-Rex Zoologist Nigel Marven travels back to the Cretaceous Montana on a mission to rescue Tyrannosaurus Rex. As a wave of devastation heads towards him, he coaxes two baby Tyrannosaurs through the portal and into the park - naming them Terence and Matilda in the process. Mammoth Marven travels 10,000 years back to the ice age, in search of the last remaining woolly mammoths. After an unexpected encounter with a cave bear, he successfully returns with an injured female mammoth he calls Martha. Bird House This will take you 135 million years back to prehistoric China on a search for a winged dinosaur called a Microraptor. A devastating volcanic eruption forces Nigel Marven to rescue not only the Microraptors, yet also huge Titanosaurs. Sabre Tooth When Marven leaves on a huge prehistoric South America expedition, a Titanosaurs escapes its compound. Accompanied by big cat expert Saba Douglas-Hamilton, the two search for the legendary Sabre-Tooth cat as they face eternal extinction. Insects Going back 300 million years to prehistoric Scotland to search for giant creepy crawlies. After capturing a giant dragonfly, millipede and scorpion in quick succession, the team hitches a ride with an enormous Titanosaurs to the portal back to the park. Giant Croc Going back 75 million years to prehistoric Texas on Deinosuchus rescue attempt. Deinosuchus is the largest crocodile ever to have lived This is in DVD format that will rung for 4 hourse and 18 minutes on 3 DVDs. Discovery Illuminated Ant Gel Habitat This is again one of the best sellers. You can watch as ants create a unique maze of fascinating tunnels in this complete, self-sustaining habitat. There's nothing to do but observe, learn - and enjoy. This toy is good for children from 8 years old and above. The toy weighs 2.4 pounds and made of plastic, nontoxic gel. Its dimension is 6.5"L x 6"W x 1.25" H You can observe ants in action as they tunnel through a nutrient-rich gel - no other food is required. Safety warning: This product contains small parts that may present a choking hazard for young children. FEATURES: It has a complete, self-sustaining habitat Clear, non-toxic gel specially formulated for the nutritional needs of ants You can watch ants live, work and tunnel It is based on a 2003 space shuttle experiment LED illuminates the blue gel to a bright green that you can see in the dark Magnifying glass and extreme zoom lens for close-up viewing There's no food or water required Ants are shipped directly to your home* It has a 90-day manufacturer's warranty Ants are not included. If you want to purchase ants, place an order by mail or by phone at 1-800-728-6999. You will then receive 20-25 Harvester Ants via mail delivery. Ants are available all year round, but for U.S. only. Ordering Questions & Order Status How do I place an order? Simply click the "Add to Cart" button which will place the item in your shopping cart. Then, you can continue shopping or proceed to checkout. When you have finished adding items to your cart and have made any changes to your product quantity and gift box options, click the "Checkout Now" button and follow the directions to complete your transaction. How do I place an international order? When placing an international order, go to International Orders page to find out about the international shipping rates and to view listings of international distributors for videos and CD-ROMs. Please note that there are certain shipping restrictions related to products (specifically, videos, telescopes and electronics) and required duties and charges for selected countries. When is my credit card charged? Your credit card will be charged as soon as your order ships. If your order includes both in-stock and backordered items, you will initially be charged only for the in-stock portion of your order. If your order only includes backordered items, your account will not be charged until the items ship. Do you offer gift wrap online? To include a gift box in your order, simply select "Gift Box" in the shopping cart and view a sample of gift box. Gift boxes may not be available on some items. Gift boxes featuring the Discovery globe are available for just $4.95. Boxes are made of 100% recycled materials and are 100% recyclable. Will I need to pay sales tax? Discovery Store is required by law to remit sales tax on shipments to any state where it has a corporate or commercial presence. For shipments to the following, the appropriate sales tax rate will be added to the total amount of the order, including gift box fees (if applicable), in accordance with local tax laws. If the shipment is to a state marked by an "*" (asterisk), the appropriate tax rate will be applied to the merchandise, shipping/handling charges, and gift box fees (if applicable). How long does it take for my order to be delivered? Typically, In-stock items are shipped within 1-2 business days. Standard shipping takes only 4-6 business days. Express delivery takes 2-3 business days if your order is placed by 1 p.m. EST. Overnight delivery takes just one business day if your order is placed by 1 p.m. EST. Are items shipped as soon as they become available or when the entire order is complete? Generally, items are shipped as soon as they are available with the exception of international orders (at no additional shipping & handling cost). How do I cancel an order? Once an order begins the fulfillment process, you are unable to modify it. Please call customer service in the US at 1-800-889-9950 for additional information on what can be done for your specific order. Will prices display on the packing slip of my gift order? If the shipping address is different than the billing address on your order, prices will not show on the packing slip. Can I make changes to my order after it has been submitted? Unfortunately, orders cannot be changed once they have been submitted. What if I prefer not to place my order online? If for any reason you prefer not to complete your order online, Discovery Store will gladly accept your order by phone, fax or mail. Visit our How to Order page for exact details on submitting an offline order. If you have additional questions and need to speak to a customer service representative, please call toll-free in the US at 1-800-889-9950 between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. EST, Monday through Friday. How do I track the status of an order? To view the status of a single order, visit the Order Tracking page and enter your order number and billing zip code. How do I inquire about my Discovery Channel Experiences order? Discovery Channel Experiences are offered through a partnership with Excitations. Please contact Excitations customer service if you have any questions about your order. How do I inquire about my custom fan gear order? Custom fan gear is offered through a partnership with CafePress.com. Please contact CafePress customer service if you have any questions about your order. Payment, Coupons, Passport Rewards, Gift Cards and Certificates What payment methods do you accept? Credit card payment in the form of American Express, Discover, Mastercard and Visa are acceptable, including accept PayPal® and Bill Me Later®. What is PayPal? PayPal is the trusted leader in online payments, enabling buyers and businesses to send and receive money online. PayPal has more than 100 million member accounts in 103 countries and regions. It's accepted by merchants everywhere, including eBay. What is Bill Me Later? Bill Me Later is a convenient and secure payment method designed for purchases on the web or over the phone. As a credit account, Bill Me Later provides you with the flexibility to purchase without using your credit card. Purchases are subject to credit approval. Please note that Bill Me Later is not available for video download purchases. Why was my order declined by Bill Me Later? Discovery Store does not have access to any information on Bill Me Later's credit decision. Bill Me Later will send a letter detailing the reason for their decision within 30 days. What is my Card ID #? Your card identification number (CID) is a unique 3 or 4-digit number printed on your credit card. This number acts as an additional security measure by verifying that the card is with you during purchase. It is not stored in any of our systems and is only used to protect you from online fraud. As a result, you will have to enter it every time you purchase from our site even if your other account information is securely stored with Discovery Store. Is it safe to use my credit card online? As you complete your order through our online store, you'll be asked for your name, address and credit card information. We use Secure Socket Layer (SSL) - the leading data encryption technology on the Internet - to send this personal information in an encrypted code to our servers. Only Discovery Store can decode your encrypted information. Plus, this data is stored on a protected server. How do I apply a coupon towards my order? Enter the coupon code in the coupon field on the shopping cart page and complete your order. You may only enter one coupon code per order. What products or services are not eligible for coupon offers? Refer to specific coupon exclusions for details. Most telescopes and other items with additional shipping charges, for example, are excluded from free shipping offers. Telescopes and telescope accessories are also excluded from percent off coupons. Gift box, taxes, duties and shipping do not apply toward the minimum order value associated with our coupon codes. Discovery Store coupon offers cannot be attributed to orders made through Excitations.com, Gaiam.com or CafePress.com. How do I redeem Passport Rewards certificates? You can redeem valid Passport Rewards certificates by entering your Passport Member Number and reward certificate(s) in checkout and completing your order. You can also redeem your certificates through the Discovery Store Catalog. The entire reward certificate must be used in one visit; any unused portion will be forfeited. You may enter up to eight reward certificates online. Passport Rewards are not valid on Excitations.com, CafePress.com, Gaiam.com or other partner web-sites. How do I buy and redeem gift cards and certificates online? You can buy gift cards online. You can also redeem gift cards and electronic gift certificates as well as presentation gift certificates online. To redeem a card or certificate online, enter the gift card and PIN# or certificate number(s) in the appropriate fields on the Shipping Method page in checkout and complete your order. You may enter up to three gift card or certificate numbers online. You will see the amount of your credit deducted from your overall order total on the Order Summary page of checkout before you submit you order. Any remaining balance on the order will need to be paid by credit card. Electronic gift certificates can be redeemed online only, but are no longer available for purchase. When does my gift card or certificate expire? Gift cards and certificates should be used within 1 year of issue date. How do I check the balance of my Gift Card? You may reach the US at 800-889-9950 to obtain the balance of your Gift Card. Do you have a corporate gifts program? Yes, Discovery Store does have a corporate gifts program. Visit our corporate gifts page for more information and for instructions on how to participate. Can I redeem Discovery Store coupons and Passport Rewards on my CafePress custom fan gear, Discovery Experiences Excitations or Gaiam.com order? Discovery Store coupon offers and Passport Rewards cannot be attributed to orders made through CafePress.com, Excitations.com, Gaiam.com or other partner web-sites Shipping & Returns How much shipping and handling will I pay? Discovery Store bases its shipping charges on your merchandise total. To review rates for orders within the United States, visit the store's Shipping page. To review rates for orders to international addresses, visit the International Orders page. Do I have to pay shipping & handling for each shipment on my order? Generally, Discovery ships items as soon as they become available. If you receive multiple shipments due to some items on backorder, you will not be charged additional shipping & handling for each shipment. Please note: International orders containing more than one item will usually be shipped together. Do oversized products require additional shipping charges? Yes, some larger products require shipping and handling charges in addition to normal shipping rates. What shipping carriers do you use? Discovery uses a number of different carriers based on the size, weight and location of your package. Depending on the service you select, your package could be delivered by UPS, USPS, or Freight carrier. Some UPS Services partner with the USPS for final delivery of your package. What is In-Home Delivery? Select large and heavy items are delivered by In-Home delivery service as indicated on product pages. In-Home delivery is a great value and includes: Delivery inside customer's residence (does not include assembly) Expedited delivery time of just five to six business days Delivery by appointment within a four hour window Some items indicate they ship "directly from the manufacturer," what does that mean? These noted items ship from the manufacturer of the product as opposed to shipping from the Discovery Store facility. When purchasing one of these items, please note: Only Standard Delivery is available. If ordering the item as a gift, gift box is not available and the product packaging may reveal the contents. These items can not be delivered internationally or to P.O. Boxes, APO or FPO addresses. What if my product arrives damaged? In the unlikely event that a product arrives damaged, please use the online e-mail form or call toll-free in the US at 1-800-889-9950. Discovery will send a carrier to your home to pick up the product at no extra cost to you. What is the Discovery Store return policy? Discovery Store offers an exchange or refund for the full purchase amount of most items returned within 30 days of delivery. After 30 days, Discovery offers an exchange or store credit in the amount of the current selling price (excludes Meade telescopes and accessories). Using My Account What is the benefit of setting up an account? Setting up and maintaining an account will simplify your shopping experience at DiscoveryStore.com. Log in and start benefiting from Discovery's convenient account services, like a personal address book that simplifies your shipping choices, securely saved credit card information, and our timely order tracking program to monitor all your orders. How do I change my password? Go to My Account and select Account Info to update your password. If you haven't already logged in, you'll be asked to log in with your e-mail address and current password. You'll then come to a screen that gives you the option to change your personal information. Simply fill in the fields you'd like to change and select Update when you're done. How do I update my account information? Go to My Account and log in with your e-mail address and password. Select Account Info to make changes to your account, Address Book to make changes to your personal address book, and Credit Card Info to update your credit card settings. How do I view my order history? Go to My Account, log in with your e-mail address and password, and select Order History to view the status of all your recent orders in your account. Product Information What if I have a question about a product? If you have a question about a product, please use the convenient online e-mail form to submit questions to the knowledgeable Customer Care Representatives or call toll-free in the US at 1-800-889-9950. Does Discovery Store sell videos of programs seen on Discovery Channel, TLC, Animal Planet and Discovery Health? Yes, Discovery Store does offer DVDs of some programs that air on our networks. However, many network programs are unavailable for purchase on DVD. Are Discovery Store DVDs compatible with my DVD player? Discovery Store DVDs are in DVD-5 format and are compatible with all consumer DVD players with Region 1 encoding (US and Canada only). If you have a DVD player from another region, please refer to the Discovery's list of International Partners for Videos & DVDs. 