JOB FAIRS Do's & Don'ts DOs Dress Professionally. Job fairs require the same attention to dress up like that of an interview. Greet the company's staff with a firm handshake. Establish an eye contact. Prepare an introduction.

Prior to the job interview, create a script introducing yourself, knowledge of the company, and your background to the position(s) you want to be considered. Have an open mind. However, consider consulting others to discover their potential for helping you begin your career. Bring several copies of your resume.

Organize your documents in a portfolio, attache case, or briefcase. Remember that first impressions go a long way. Do the best you can to mark your personality that would lead you to be considered in the final interview. DON'Ts Don't just leave your resume on the table and walk off. Have time to chat first to learn about their organization and vacancies. Don't jump into a conversation when the recruiter is still having a conversation with other applicant; be polite and patient.

While waiting for your turn, read the company's information. Don't overstate your abilities. Present yourself and your abilities convincingly. Don't monopolize the recruiter's time. Sell yourself, make a good impression and give the next applicant the opportunity to do the same. Don't ask too many questions about salary, benefits, and perks, or vacation days yet. This will give the recruiter a wrong impression.

Don't complain about your former jobs and bosses if you want to leave a positive impression about you and your work ethics. Avoid negative words like can't,won' or don't.

INTERVIEW PREPARATIONS 1. Know where you are going: how long it will take you to get to the company by bus, by car, by train who to ask once you get to the building 2. Arrive early Wake up and travel early for you to arrive about 10 minutes prior to the interview schedule, so that you can prepare and settle down before your interview. 3. Practice a run beforehand , if you are not familiar of your directions and time arrival. Provide yourself a map or the directions of your destination Anticipate the traffic and other inevitable circumstances If you are using public transport, carefully plan your route and make sure you know the right bus or train interval schedule. 4. Ask the company's parking area If you are expecting to look for your own parking space, allot some extra time for this. Find out exactly where you need to go the moment you arrive at the company, especially if it is a big company with multiple buildings or entrances. If your were advised to go directly to a specific office, make sure you know how to get there once you enter the company's premise.

5. Write down the name and position of the person who you should ask for on arrival Also, get the interviewer's contact number just in case you have to notify him/her for some reason like getting stuck in a traffic. 6. Make copies of any other information you may need to present during the job interview. 7. Remember to eat something before the interview . A light meal or snack will give you some energy and will prevent the possibility of your stomach rumbling and gurgling during the interview, which is embarassing 8. Practice smiling , this will give your face a glow that would leave a good first impression. By using these above mentioned tips and preparing properly for your job interview, you can be sure that you are both ready and confident to ace it.

DRESSING UP When you are aiming to stand out in a job interview, what you are wearing matters. The main goal for dressing up is not to impress the employer on how good your clothes look on you or to show if what you're wearing is expensive or signatured. Your goal in dressing up is to be able to project a professional and capable image regardless of the kind of position you are aiming for. Focus on clothes that will send the right career message. The important part of a hiring decision is based on nonverbal elements such as : posture handshake grooming eye contact body language listening skills clothing accessories Don't overlook the power of a good first impression, because through it you could win the position you are aiming for.

During the first meeting, people get assumptions about your professional credibility and potential performance based on how you look. Always remember that sometimes it's difficult to overcome a poor first impression, even though you have that knowledge or expertise. Many employers interpret your appearance in terms of what you know about the things around you and what kind of attention you give to details.

If you come to an interview dressed professionally, you will feel a sense of confidence and others will sense your self-assurance. Key Aspects When Dressing For A Job Interview: 1. Style Oftentimes, applicants are unclear about what is the appropriate interview get up. Usually, formal business wear is appropriate for a job interview.

Considered formal business wears are: a business suit or matched skirt and jacket for women; a pantsuit or matched pants and blazer, plus closed-toe shoes, a smart blouse, understated jewelry and make-up. For men, a formal business attire means a suit, a shirt, and a tie. The standard professional look is a suit matched with a coat and pants with a single-breasted and traditional style. Suits should be plain without fancy buttons, stitching, or special trim. Generally, highly fitted designer suits are inappropriate for a formal interview setting.

If you are aware that the company has a more casual dress code. then go for a smart ,yet less formal look. For women , this means a well-tailored pants and a blouse, a smart dress or a well coordinated skirt and blouse. Never wear Denims, T-shirts or baggy clothing for an interview. For men , dressing for a job interview in a less formal environment means tailored slacks with a long-sleeved shirt. Always remember that the clothes you'll wear do not have to be expensive to look good.

Just aim to look professionally and presentably to get noticed. 2. Color Dressing for a job interview in the most appropriate manner means paying close attention to the colors you select. Color plays an important role when projecting a professional image. Neutral colors can convey a competent and capable image. Neutral colors are: navy blue gray camel cream white beige black These colors look both professional and keep the focus of the interview on you and what you are saying.

For women a more personal touch can be included , in the form of a blouse or a scarf, feminine colors like: ice blue lilac a dusty or soft pink and a soft green as part of the mix Loud colors such as hot pink or bright red prove distracting in an interview. Hose should be tasteful and unnoticeable. Nude colors, or sheer black hose in winter are appropriate. Shoes should be tasteful and not the first thing the interviewer notices about you. For men good colors are solid navy beige gray Subtle pinstripes or plaid Men can include a pastel colored shirt to lift the neutral color of their suit or pants or add a distinctive tie. Shirt colors should always be lighter than the tie. Men's shoes should either be black or dark brown leather. Socks should be the same color as the suit and long enough so that your legs don't show when you sit.

Busy prints and loud colors are overwhelming and look unprofessional. 3. Fit Fit is all important when selecting the most appropriate clothes for your job interview. Pants should be fitted ,yet not very tight. Men should wear a belt with a suit. Skirts with straight styles like pencil skirts, should be loose enough to sit down comfortably.

The skirt should also be just above or below the knee, that you can sit without having to tug the hem down. Jackets and blouses should button up comfortably with no pulling or gaping. The shirt collar should fit the width of the jacket lapels and the sleeve cuffs should extend about a half inch below the jacket's sleeve. Belts should be plain leather with traditional buckles. Avoid big, heavy, and fancy buckles. Dressing for a job interview is key to your success. Your interview clothes send a powerful message to the interviewer about your professionalism and competence.

THANK YOU NOTE After a job interview, it is polite to send a thank you note. It will as well give the applicant the opportunity to bring up something a person may have forgotten to say or may want to say again. How: If undergone a panel interview where there were more than one person conducted the interview, send each one a letter. Use an appropriate business letter format. Address the person formally and check first the spelling of his or her name before sending the letter Include the date of the interview. For example, Thank you for interviewing me on Wednesday, March 12th.

Assume that people who interview are busy so, keep the letter short and simple. Bring up one point you would like the interviewer to remember. Before sending, check your letter carefully for errors.

Have someone else check it too. Tips: Make sure your letter is free of spelling, grammar errors. All business letters must be typed.

Use this opportunity to express a clear interest in the job.