T he annual migration of Humpback Whales that takes place off the coast of Rincon every winter is guaranteed to be o ne of the most fabulous sights you will ever see. To see the whales from the land, head to The Lighthouse Park for the best views. Alternatively take a boat trip for a close up view. Rincon is a great place for horse lovers. Riding along the beach is a great experience and is very popular throughout Puerto Rico. There are two stables in the Rincon area that offer horseback riding.

Ask for details at your hotel. The stables will be happy to take you out, even if you're never ridden a horse before. It'll be an amazing experience that you'll never forget. Visit Rincon in late August and you can experience the Patron Saint Festival.

Coconut Palms is a great oceanfront location for your holiday, right on the best beach in Puerto Rico for swimming and snorkeling. The hotel has a massive verandah overlooking the ocean, the sunsets you can see from here are absolutely outstanding. Coconut Palms is also a popular venue for weddings, parties and corporate events.

The hotel has a restaurant called Smilin' Joe's, which serves Caribbean-Asian Fusion food. The Rum Shack Restaurant serves lighter meals and snacks next to the pool and has several themed evenings such as Sushi Night, Movie Night and Mexican Night. The bar is very popular with the locals too. The Seaglass Bar is on the garden mezinnine between Smilin' Joe's Restaurant and the pool level and is famous for their Bailey's Banana Daiquiris.

Beside the Pointe is the closest accommodation to the beach you're likely to find. You can step out of your room and into onto the beach. The hotel has plenty of decks and terraces with amazing ocean views It's perfectly located for walking on the beach, and the restaurant serves tasty food. The Tamboo Beach Bar is open into the night offering some great musical experiences including island music and reggae. Suites at 413 is a suite only hotel.

There are four suites for up to sixteen guests, so it's perfect if you're travelling as a group. The suites are of a minimalist design but are luxurious too with wooden floors and marble baths. There's also a rooftop terrace with beach views.

It really is a wonderful place to just relax and enjoy a drink or read a book. Another good residence for group travel or larger families is the Surf787 Guest Villa. With six guest rooms up to fourteen guests can be accommodated. You can rent the whole villa, but you can also choose to rent just one room, so even if you aren't with a large party, you needn't miss out on a stay at Surf787. You'll also get breakfast included in your package. The hotel has a swimming pool, a games room and work-out equipment. Whichever Lemontree Oceanfront Cottage you stay in, you can be guaranteed that it will face the ocean.

It's well located and so makes the perfect base for a Puerto Rican holiday. You'll find the relaxing atmosphere here is perfect to unwind and reinvigorate you. You'll see pelicans here, and you can swim and snorkel safely in the calm ocean. The cottage have big ocean side decks that are covered and are private, so you can spend plenty of time outdoors. The cottages have all been recently renovated and the style of them is quite unique. You'll find a variety of interesting works of art on display in your cottage, there's also a library of books you can borrow and of course you'll have all the mod cons you'd expect to make your stay relaxing and comfortable.

The Blue Boy Inn is a a bed and breakfast establishment located just a walk away from some fabulous beaches. If you're looking for a romantic holiday then the Blue Boy Inn is the ideal location. The Tres Sirenas Beach Inn is right on the water's edge and offers bed and breakfast accommodation in a casual setting. There is a selection of rooms and apartments to choose from, so you're bound to find one that suits your needs and party size.

Each one has equally stunning sea views and is private. You'll have your own swimming pool and tropical garden so you can relax in total seclusion and privacy. Travel & Leisure magazine named Tres Sirenas Beach Inn one of the 27 Affordable Beach Resorts in the world.

The Pineapple Inn is a new small hotel in Rincon. This romantic and intimate hotel has a pool and a private garden.

Bungers Bar and Grill offers fabulous international dishes. They specialise in vegetarian cuisine and are available for small weddings and other functions. The bar also has a pool and jacuzzi as well as a gift shop. Guests can take advantage of free loan of hammocks , beach chairs, tennis rackets and more. Pancho Villa is an atmospheric Mexican Restaurant on the plaza in downtown Rincon.

There's plenty to choose from including burritos, flautas and tacos. They also serve a delicious fried cheesecake that is well worth trying. The restaurant is open or both lunch and dinner. The Tamboo Seaside Grill serves American and Caribbean cooking. The menu changed daily based on what is fresh what fish and seafood have been caught that day. You eat outside at the Seaside Grill under the palm trees.

It's casual and the perfect place to relax. There is also a b outique and gift shop selling unique swimsuits and clothing as well as local arts and crafts. The Tapas Bar at Casa Isle is well worth a visit, this is casual al fresco dining serving sangria and tapas.You dine in beautiful ocean side gardens, everything is fresh and made locally. The bar is open for lunch and dinner seven days a week from December to April, and limited hours during the summer season. If breakfast is the most important meal of your day, when not try La Rosa Inglesa Inn & Breakfast Restaurant. They specialise in tradition English breakfasts, but they also do an amazing Sunday lunch carvery. For breakfast you can order eggs Benedict or a Full Monty traditional full cooked English breakfast.

All the bread is baked on the premises, they use only free range eggs and they stuff their own sausages too.