To better understand what are included in the coverage of tangible personal property taxes, it is necessary to first understand what is meant by tangible personal property. Tangible personal property is physical property, usually one that is movable, that has value and utility in and of itself (examples: trade tools, fixtures, office equipment, inventory). One basic category on determining whether a thing is movable or not is its capability of being in motion. In determining whether an item is real property or tangible personal property, the following aspects must be considered: The manner in which the item is fixed or attached to the real estate. If a thing which is ordinarily movable has been attached to a real estate in a fixed manner, it may be considered as also an immovable. The intention of the party who attached the item. The intention is important because if the owner of a real property intended to permanently attach a movable to an immovable, the movable will be considered a real property.

The purpose for which the premises are used. The purpose is also a significant purpose. If the removal of a tangible personal property would mean that the location will not be able to serve its necessary purpose, then the tangible personal property will be considered as an immovable.

Generally, items remain personal property if they can be removed without damage to the real estate or to the item itself. But, if the removal of the personal property on the real property that it is attached to can result in the destruction of Machinery bolted to the floor to prevent movement while in operation would remain personal property. If the machinery were built into the building in such a manner that its removal would produce considerable damage to the building, it would be part of the real estate. All individuals and business entities who own, lease, or have a beneficial interest in taxable, tangible property located within a particular state on January 1 must file a tangible property tax return.

The deadlines should be strictly followed because additional fines are imposed on late payers. And non-paying of the tangible personal property taxes would merit tax delinquency. All tangible property is taxable, except the following: Personal household goods used in the home because they are used for the main survival of the people within the household.

Crops grown in the year which the assessment is made and in the hands of the producer. This is because crops can be classified as immovables based on the provisions of special laws. Tangible personal property owned by institutions exempted under specific provisions of various laws within the state.

There could be varying reasons for exemptions form paying tangible personal taxes. For example, if a new business is just young, there could be special provisions to exempt it from paying all the taxes to help it grow until it achieves stability. The taxable situs of tangible personal property in Kentucky are the Counties where the property is physically located. Another way to define tangible personal property is that it is every physical item subject to ownership except real and intangible property. Tangible Property Filing Requirements Some states do not really allow consolidated and joint returns.

So, each return must be made for a specific tangible personal property. Owners need to file a return for each property location within the state where the tax return is being applied for. The return must include the property location by street address and county.

A post office box is not acceptable as the property address. The complete address should always be placed on the return because the addresses are being used by the government for the purposes of having a pertinent list of records and information. File the return between January 1 and May 15. The dates should be complied with because there will be appropriate sanctions if they are not followed. A responsible citizen is known to be tax payers who pay on time with the idea that it will really help the government to gather sufficient funds for its governmental projects. Do not enclose the tangible return with the income tax return.

It should be followed because they are two separate documents. They should not be placed together as it may cause ambiguity to the officers in charge of assessing and evaluating the tax returns. File the return with the PVA in the county of taxable situs or with the Division of State Valuation. There is no extension for this return.

Thus, when the government provides for a specific date, there will no more be extension for the return of the necessary documents.