Pros and Cons of Butter and Margarine The pros and cons of each choice can help you in making informed decision about what to use and also how often or seldom it should be used. Butter Pros: Butter is natural and made from just one or two ingredients which are cream and sometimes salt. Cons: Cream, which is basically milk fat, contains saturated fat as well as cholesterol, which are the two dietary ingredients that are responsible for raising blood cholesterol and they also increase the risk of heart diseases. Bottom line: Butter should be saved for special occasions and recipes but even then it should be sparingly used. Stick margarine Pros: Stick margarine has got a much lower content of saturated fat as compared to butter and at the same time it has been made from vegetable oils. So it does not contain any cholesterol. Cons: Though it has a lower level of saturated fats, stick margarine contains almost the same amount of calories and total fat as compared to butter. Moreover, hydrogenation or partial hydrogenation adds hydrogen to the oil as it helps to solidify it on a stick or in the form of a spread. This process results in the creation of trans fat, which is found to be even worse than saturated fat. Trans fat is found to raise LDL or bad cholesterol significantly and it is much more than what saturated fat does. It also results in lowering HDL cholesterol or the good cholesterol. Tub and liquid margarine Pros: Tub and liquid margarines are softer than Stick margarine and contain lesser quantity of trans fat than the harder stick margarines. At the same time they have a lower level of saturated fat and calories as compared to stick margarine or butter. Moreover, like other margarine, they are also cholesterol free. Newer options that are available in the market are trans-fat free and some brands have been enriched with plant sterols, which not only help in blocking the absorption of cholesterol but they also help in lowering of LDL cholesterol. Cons: Just like stick margarines, the tub and liquid margarines also contain high concentrations of omega-6 fatty acids. Moreover, they might contain some trans fats due to the fact that the manufacturers are allowed by law to claim "0 trans fat" on Nutrition Facts labels if their product has up to0.5 gram of trans fat per serving. Bottom line: As compared to butter and stick margarine, tub and liquid margarines are surely a healthier choice. Read the labels carefully as these will help you in deciding the healthiest choices. In case you are trying to minimize the consumption of trans fat in your diet, then it is advisable to check the ingredients list along with the Nutrition Facts label. In case partially hydrogenated oil has been listed, then it contains trans fat. Olive, safflower and canola oil Pros: These natural oils have been found to be rich in heart-friendly polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats, and at the same time they also contain a healthy balance of heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids and omega-6 fatty acids. Cons: Although these oils contain are mostly healthy fats, but they are still fats and this means that they have an extremely concentration of calories with a whopping 120 calories per tablespoon which is even more than the calories contained in butter. Bottom line: Olive, safflower and canola oils are surely healthier choices as compared to butter and most of the margarines. These should be used as replacements for butter and margarine as far as possible but watch the amounts. Remember that those fat calories can really add up fast. Butter contains artery-clogging saturated fat, and on the other hand margarine contains an unhealthy combination of trans fats saturated and. So the healthiest choice is to avoid both of butter as well as margarine and start using liquid oils, like olive, safflower and canola oil instead. Even the dietitians understand that there are some foods that benefit from a little buttery flavor. So it wouldn't be actually realistic to give a suggestion that that you should give up butter as well as margarine altogether. Toast to good health When you switch over from butter to margarine for the first time, you should try to taste several brands to decide the one that one you like. Several healthier choices for margarine have shown up on the grocers' shelves during the recent years. Pick a few to try or you may ask for recommendations from those people who have already tried .Invite some friends or family members and toast up some whole-grain bread to compare the flavors of various spreads. There'll be at least one spread that will passe your "toast test." Watch for new products available in the market and try them periodically. Common concern about trans fats is prompting most of the manufacturers to explore different ways of removing trans fats from margarines and to reduce the level of saturated fats present in butter. Oils are also attention like the new diglyceride-rich oil which is metabolized in a different manner, thus reducing the amount of oil is stored as fat in our bodies. You have a number of options to choose from and if you select the healthier options, you'll have room for an occasional dab of butter on summer corn. 