His character, Mark, starts to have medical problems early in Season 8, which come to a head when he loses track of where he is and what he is doing while handling a trauma in the ER. He is in due time diagnosed with a brain tumor, which his doctors tell him cannot be operated upon. He is told that his condition is terminal and that he doesn't have much time. Mark decides to get a second opinion from a neurosurgeon based in New York City, and from this doctor he hears somewhat better news. The doctor performs surgery on Mark and it seems that things have gone well, though it is some time before Mark feels that he is himself again. Eventually, however, the tumor recurs, and this time Mark learns that there truly is no surgical option. Mark begins trying to repair his relationship with his rebellious teenaged daughter Rachel, who is at odds with Mark's new wife Elizabeth; Elizabeth fears that their baby Ella may not be safe with Rachel around. After she is proved sadly right, Elizabeth takes the baby and leaves.

Mark has not yet told her about his recurrent tumor and attempts to hide his chemotherapy and radiation treatments from her. Eventually, she finds out and comes back to care of him. Mark tells her that she shouldn't make a pretense of their still being married simply because of his illness, but Elizabeth wants to come back.

Mark, in time, accepts that he is dying, and decides to discontinue the treatments, which are more damaging to his quality of life than the tumor is. On his last day working in the ER, he is visited by the same elderly lady that appeared on the very first episode of ER . As she did then, she reports that she has a hangnail and that it is extremely painful. Mark informs her that he has inoperable brain cancer, refers her to a different doctor, and tells her not to come back to the ER. The next day, Mark and Rachel leave for Hawaii, where he grew up, to try to remember happier times during Mark's last few days.

As Mark's condition deteriorates, Rachel decides to call Elizabeth, who arrives with baby Ella. One night, Rachel comes to her father's room while he is sleeping. Mark wakes up and tells her, though his words are somewhat slurred, that he had been dreaming of her, and remembering her love of balloons.

He tells Rachel that he has been attempting to think up some wise fatherly counsel that all daughters should get from their dads. Be loving and giving, he tells her, with not only her time, but also, and perhaps even more importantly, with her love. Finally, she should even be loving and giving - in a word, generous - with her life. Rachel tells her father that she can still recall a lullaby that he crooned to her when she was quite small.

She puts a pair of earbuds on him, and plays the version of "Somewhere Over The Rainbow" performed by Israel Kamakawiwo`ole. Mark looks happy, and drifts off. As he listens to the song, viewers see him as he walks through the ER, though no one else is in it except for him. When the next day comes, Elizabeth finds that Mark has died. It reveals a connection between Mark and Dr. Catherine Banfield (played by Angela Basset) that was not previously known to exist, as she only went to work at the County ER after Mark's death.

Mark had been treating Banfield's five-year-old son, Darryl; it develops that Darryl has leukemia. Mark becomes determined to save Darryl that day, even putting the case ahead of his chemo treatments, and his exertions took a great toll on him through the day. Ultimately Mark is not able to save Darryl, who dies in the ER. However, his heroic efforts to do everything he could for Darryl are what inspire Catherine, in the present day, to assist in saving a young woman from drowning, and also in part to come to work at the ER.

A third memorable departure was that of the character Dr. Robert Romano. A brash, unpleasant, unscrupulous man, Romano was nevertheless popular as a love-to-hate character. Even though he would make bigoted and racist remarks, he was often cast as a buffoon or butt of a joke, and sometimes provided much-neede comic relief for the show's otherwise grim plot lines. Romano is shown throughout his five seasons on the show to be a brilliant surgeon, ruthlessly ambitious, and willing to stoop to connivance and manipulation in order to get the position and power that he wants. This behavior actually does pay off for him, and Romano is made Chief of Staff of the hospital, where he both performs brilliantly and abuses his power outrageously.

However, after he has been Chief of Staff for two seasons, Romano gets a shocking and grisly comeuppance. When the staff realizes that an ER patient has smallpox, monkeypox, or both, they arrange for an evacuation to be performed by helicopter. On the helipad on the roof of the hospital, Romano is assisting in the evacuation and backs into the tail rotor blades of the helicopter. One of the ER doctors is able to save his life and surgeons succeed in reattaching the arm, but of course it will never be the same again. Romano's recovery is slow and he has continued physical limitations.

He finds that the arm lacks proper sensory and motor capacities; yet he undertakes surgical procedures that were not authorized and that he is not capable of performing. This poor judgment, along with other instances of reckless and careless behavior, leads to Romano being demoted from Chief of Staff to Chief of the ER. Eventually, Romano has a truly bad incident with his arm; in a kitchen accident, his arm catches fire, but Romano doesn't even notice. He decides he must end his career as a surgeon and get the arm amputated. During his entire time as Chief of the ER, Romano is increasingly vitriolic and aggressive to his co-workers and patients alike. He regularly insults the staff and vents his frustration upon them.

He even carries his ill-judged hostility outside the hospital, succeeding in insulting the patrons of a bar to the point where he provokes a fight and gets beaten up. On an errand to return a wealthy patient's watch before the patient is transported by helicopter, Romano gets a panic attack when, for the first time since backing into the tail rotors two years earlier, he lays eyes on a helicopter. He flees down into the ambulance bay outside the ER to get some air.

Up on the helipad, however, there are several gusts of sudden high winds. The helicopter begins sidewinding on the helipad, finally spinning off the roof of the hospital. Romano, outside the hospital in the ambulance bay, sees the fiery debris coming down and looks up to see the flaming helicopter heading towards him. He screams, but too late - the copter lands squarely on Romano, creating an enormous fireball in the ambulance bay and killing him instantly.