Conclusion ===================================================== Introduction Ever thought of playing Volleyball on the moon? Probably a ridiculous thought, but just imagine how far and where the ball would travel in that virtually-zero gravity? Volleyball has been around as a sport for a long time, and it is played in more than one form, the indoor variation, with the other option being the game of Beach Volleyball. The latter is perceived to be the more leisurely pursuit, but in reality it is a fiercely fought contest. As far as can be determined, Indoor Volleyball made its grand debut in Holyoke, Massachusetts, U. S., on February 9 1895. Not surprisingly, it all began under the imaginative minds of the teachers at a YMCA, and was no doubt designed to keep the young mens' minds focused on the ball and not on matters of the body! It certainly is a fascinating game, ranging from frenetic action one moment, then slowing to almost slow-motion lethargy, as one team attempts to outsmart the opponents on the other side of the net. Bouncing (the ball), jumping, rapid movement, slow movement and diving are all part of the fun. So too are shouting and the barking of orders and commands as the collective endeavors to overcome the foe. Sure, tempers do become frayed from time to time, but the good spirit always seems to prevail and a wonderful game is enjoyed by all as a rule. Read on as we take a look at the big-money earner the game of Indoor Volleyball has become. About the AVP The Association of Volleyball Professionals (AVP for short) was established in 1983 with the intention of representing the interests of the best men's and women's pro beach volleyball players in the U.S. and indeed, probably the world. The main objective at the AVP is to deliver to its substantial fan base the experience of an amazing athletic contest followed by an unforgettable beach party. With over one million people excited fans expected to attend an AVP event this year, it is big business for sure. On May 31, 2001 the AVP was restructured under a new management team led by agent Leonard Armato and his company Management Plus. When they announced the acquisition of the tour in Manhattan Beach, CA, they made history, simply by uniting both men and women professional beach volleyball players under one umbrella association. Along with this historic unification of the men's and women's competitions, the "new" AVP Tour has focused on maintaining one property that could maximize the spoils for all stakeholders. Effectively, sponsor dollars, marketing opportunities, media coverage and prize money were about to enter the big time. The result is that the AVP now stands unique as the only professional beach volleyball tour in the country. It enjoys a cooperative relationship with USA Volleyball and the Federation International de Volleyball (FIVB). Volleyball became an Olympic Indoor team sport in 1964. Two teams of six players were separated by a high net, as each team attempt to score points against the other by grounding the ball on the opponents court under the rules of the game, which in essence are: As with all organized sports, the full rules of volleyball are precise and detailed. Essentially, play proceeds along these lines: Points can be scored by grounding the ball on the opponents' court, or when the opposing team commits a fault. The team to score 25 points wins that 'set', with three sets winning the match. Players can make contact with the ball no more than three times before the ball has to cross over the net; consecutive contacts have to be made by different players. The ball may be played with the hands or arms, but players can legally push or strike - known as short contact - the ball with any part of the body. Volleyball through time, has evolved to include common techniques of passing, spiking, setting, passing, and blocking, as well as specialized player positions and offensive and defensive tactics. Many plays are made above the top of the net, vertical jumping has become an athletic skill that is emphasized in volleyball. In this article, we also consider competitive indoor volleyball, which is carefully regulated as a sporting discipline. A number of variations of volleyball have evolved for both the casual game, and indeed the Olympic sport of Beach Volleyball. Refinements and new developments The first 'official' ball used in volleyball remains a disputed zone; some sources claim that Spalding created the first official ball in 1896, while others claim it was only released in 1900. The rules have formalized over time; by 1916, the skill and power of the set and spike had been introduced, and four years later a "three hits" rule and back row hitting guidelines were confirmed. In 1917, the game was changed from 21 to 15 points. In 1919, about 16,000 volleyballs were distributed by the American Expeditionary Forces to their troops and allies - this certainly sparked growth of the sport in other countries. Canada was the first country outside the United States to adopt volleyball in 1900. An international federation, the Fédération Internationale de Volleyball (FIVB), was founded in 1947, and the first World Championships were held in 1949 for men and 1952 for women. The sport is now popular in Brazil, most of Europe - especially Italy, the Netherlands, and countries from Eastern Europe have risen as major forces since the late 1980s. So too in Russia, and in many other countries including China and the rest of Asia. Of course, it remains ever popular in the United States. A variation of the sport called Beach volleyball, and played on sand, with only two players per team, became a FIVB-endorsed variation in 1987 and was added to the Olympic program at the 1996 Summer Olympics. Olympic Volleyball The 1924 Summer Olympics in Paris can lay claim to the origins of Olympic volleyball. At these games, volleyball played part of an American sports demonstration event. After the formation of the FIVB and some continental confederations, volleyball began to be considered for official inclusion. Then, in 1957, a special tournament was held at the 53rd IOC session in Sofia, Bulgaria to lend support to the inclusion of volleyball as an Olympic sport. The competition was a great success, and the sport was officially included in the program for the 1964 Summer Olympics. At the outset, the Olympic volleyball tournament was a simple competition, whose format paralleled the one still used to this day in the World Cup series. All teams played against each other and were then ranked by the number of wins, set and point averages.One of the disadvantages of this round-robin system was that favored medal winners could be determined before the finals, rendering the competition virtually meaningless, as well as leading to loss of spectator interest. In order to cope with this, the competition was divided into two phases with the added attraction of a "final round" elimination tournament. This consisted of quarterfinals, semifinals, and eventually a final matche in 1972. The number of participants involved in the Olympic tournament has grown steadily since 1964. Moreover, since 1996, both women's and men's events have counted twelve participant nations. In 1964, as well as in 1968, the U.S.S.R. won men's gold.. Having taken bronze in 1964, and indeed silver in 1968, Japan finally accomplished the gold for men's volleyball in 1972 - a remarkable achievement indeed! The Women's gold went to Japan in 1964 and again in 1976. The latter year witnessed the introduction of a new, somewhat offensive skill, in that the back row attack enabled Poland to win the men's competition. Considering their opponents were their Soviet Masters, made matters very tense in a very tight five-set match. That's what competitions are made of surely? In those days, the strongest teams in men's volleyball belonged to the Eastern Block. The 1980 Summer Olympics saw the Americans lead a boycott of the event, but it did not have as great an effect on proceedings with the men's events as it had on the women's. Some say it aided the U.S.S.R. to collect their third Olympic Gold Medal in men's volleyball, this with a 3-1 victory over Bulgaria. In addition, the Soviet women's team won that year as well, also their third gold medal in this discipline. The 1984 Olympic Games in Los Angeles saw a tit-for-tat reprisal from the U.S.S.R. when they boycotted the event. Now it was the turn of the U.S. to beat Brazil in the finals for the men's gold medal. Italy gained their first medal with a third-place bronze, an indication of greater things to come as future events would witness a rise in prominence for their volleyball teams. Karch Kiraly and Steve Timmons led the U.S. men's team to a second straight gold medal at the 1988 Games. Then, in 1992, unfancied Brazil progressed past tournament favorites C.I.S., Netherlands, and Italy in the men's competition for the country's first Olympic gold medal. Meanwhile, the Netherlands team rallied under team leaders Ron Zwerver and Olof van der Meulen in the 1996 Games for a deserved five-set win over Italy. Men's bronze medalist in 1996, Serbia and Montenegro - playing in 1996 and 2000 as the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia - beat Russia for the gold medal in 2000, their first ever gold. Brazil won its second men's volleyball gold medal beating Italy in the finals in 2004. And that really is what makes America such a great place in which to live and raise a family. Where else can you combine a free economy, a diverse climate and a people who are the crucible of all the nations? And then there's volleyball that has democratized the great outdoors, because you can play it in a woodland clearing, on a beach ... in fact anywhere there are others of the same persuasion too. What a wonderful gift is volleyball for your kids. What better way for an American family to spend a Sunday afternoon, after tucking on Dad's barbequed sticky spare ribs followed by Grandma's sweet apple pie. If you are looking for the typical Californian beach lifestyle, but want the added excitement of a major event such as the AVP Crocs Hot Winter Nights Tour, then the good news is that you can now combine these attractions if you get your timing right. With 16 major events on offer each year on this tour, you are bound to have the time of your life. The next tour will feature the best of the Beach competition format, which includes appearances from top ranked AVP men and women players on a rotational basis. If the weather turns nasty and it is freezing outside, we will bring the beach indoors with over 200 tons of sand to replicate the authentic Southern California beach party atmosphere featured at a typical AVP Crocs Tour Event. * There will be four men players and four women players at each event. * The event will feature a round-robin format to determine an individual men and women champion. * Each player teams together at least once and will rotate every game to determine the best player on the sand (similar to Best of the Beach). * There will be three games in a pool, playing to 15 points (win by two). * The top (two) players with the best record in pool play will move on to the inaland will select their partner from the remaining two players. * The final will consist of one game to 15 (win by two). Conclusion We are told that the sport of Rugby is a ruffians game played by gentlemen, whereas that of Football (or Soccer) is a gentlemen's game played by ruffians! What could be said for Volleyball along those lines I wonder? It surely seems to be a game for the fit and nubile amongst both sexes! The game of Volleyball surely adds up to more excitement, action and fun than just about anything else our youth involve themselves with. If you consider the fitness levels of some of the top players, both men and women, then it all certainly becomes a super role model for new entrants to the game. It really is quite amazing how inspired our youth can be as they aspire towards the great prize money on offer when they bring their natural talents to the fore. As we read earlier, it all started out as a game created by one of the teaching staff at a local YMCA branch. Little did he know what he was about to launch globally. Although fiercely competitive, the sport is a unifier of nations around the world. Some of the European and Eastern competitors are reaching new levels of match experience and are even vying for top honors on a regular basis these days. Volleyball...it's very magnetic. Every Sunday morning I walk my large dog on the local beach, and at around 9AM a local group of enthusiasts gather to have fun in the sun. Of course, they can't play in wet weather or when it gets too hot, but otherwise you can set you clock to their schedule. My dog loves to join in and usually hijacks the ball, but it is all in good fun, and what a nice way to stay fit out in the open air! And it is also good for promoting team awareness and group dynamics. So, how does this sport rate in terms of other major events? While it may not yet be in the same league as Baseball and Basketball, it certainly is moving in the right direction! 