Uranus is one of the gas giants. The other three giant planets are Jupiter, Saturn and Neptune. These gas giants all have diameters greater than 48,000 kilometres. The other planets five planets, including Earth, are called the small planets. The small planets all have diameters less than 13,000 kilometres. Uranus is about four times the size of Earth, but it is still much smaller than either Saturn or Jupiter. Uranus is about 51,800 kilometres in diameter, compared to Earth's diameter of around 12,800 kilometres. One of the many odd facts about Uranus is that it is "lying on its side" as it faces the Sun. Earth faces the sun standing almost straight up, with the north and south poles at the top and bottom. Also, the planet rotates, or spins, from east to west which is the exact opposite of the way that Earth spins. Uranus has at least twenty-seven moons. There are probably more, but we won't know this for sure until another spacecraft is sent to investigate. The largest of Uranus' moons are Miranda, Ariel, Umbriel, Titania and Oberon. The moons are named after characters in the stories of William Shakespeare and Alexander Pope. The remaining moons are much smaller. Ten were discovered by the Voyager 2 spacecraft as it sped past the planet in 1986. Since Uranus is a gas planet, it doesn't have a solid surface like Earth, but the top layer of gas is far from quiet. By studying the pictures sent back by the Voyager spacecraft, scientists were able to see that there are winds blowing at over 645 kilometres an hour. after George III who was the King of England at the time. Other people called the planet Herschel, in honor of the man who discovered it. Another astronomer suggested the name Uranus, an ancient Greek god who was the father of Saturn, so that the new planet would have a name from mythology like the rest of the planets. The name Uranus was finally agreed on by everybody in the mid 1800's. Uranus is the seventh planet in the solar system, so the journey takes you past Saturn but not as far as Neptune. It is very far away from the Sun, about 3 billion kilometres, or about twenty times the distance from the Sun to Earth. The path, or orbit, Uranus follows around the Sun is a stretched out circle , called an ellipse, which means that Uranus' distance from the Sun varies from about 2.7 billion kilometres at its closest to about 3.1 billion kilometres when it is furthest away. Since Uranus is so far away from the Sun, it takes it a very long to to go around the Sun once. A year on Uranus, the amount of time it takes for this trip, is 84 Earth years. A day on Uranus, which is the amount of time it takes for the plant to spin around, or rotate,once, is shorter than one day on Earth. The blue-green planet spins around once in a little over seventeen hours. However, since Uranus is lying on its side, it is light all day, every day, for 42 years and then night falls for another 42 years. All the gas planets have rings, but the rings of Uranus are very faint. They cannot be seen from Earth but the Voyager spacecraft showed them. Astronomers get a hint of the rings when they occasionally block the light of a star behind them. Even the Hubble Space Telescope cannot get a very good view of the rings. They are made of something that is darker than charcoal, so astronomers didn't discover them until 1977, when the rings blocked the light of a star that was about to pass behind Uranus. The rings are the thinnest of any planet in the solar system, consisting of a single layer of particles. Some of the particles are as large as SUVs, though, which is far larger than most particles in the rings of other planets. These large particles suggest that the rings formed fairly recently, when a small moon was pulverized by a collision with a comet or asteroid. Scientists believe that the layers of the planet are not separate, like those of an onion, but gradually blend with one another. Another difference from the other gas planets is that Uranus has methane mixed in with the hydrogen and helium that make up most of the other giant planets. It is the methane gives Uranus its unusual color. Like Jupiter and Saturn, an layer of hydrogen and helium lies below the thin upper layers of Uranus' atmosphere. On Uranus, though, the layer of hydrogen and helium is not as thick as on the larger planets, extending perhaps only one-fifth of the distance down from its cloudtops. A liquid or partially frozen mixture of water, methane, and rocky minerals may lie beneath the hydrogen and helium. Unlike the region where the oceans and air meet on Earth, though, there probably isn't a sharp boundary between the layers of Uranus. The atmospheric pressure is so great that there is probably a slushy zone when the liquid and gas layers meet. This zone surrounds a dense, rocky core. Like all the outer planets, Uranus is surrounded by a swarm of moons -- 27, at current count. Five are large icy satellites that were discovered before we sent spaceships into space; 10 were discovered by Voyager 2 in 1986; and the rest were discovered by studying the planet through telescopes since 1997. The orbits of the moons are mixed among Uranus' extended ring system, so the whole system is thought to be chaotic, with the orbits changing rapidly over time. The estimated sizes of the smaller moons have changed over time as surveys have improved our knowledge of their physical properties. Although Voyager 2 performed a survey of Uranus' moons, it passed by when tilted Uranus was at the height of southern summer. As a result, only the southern hemispheres of Uranus' moons have ever been imaged by spacecraft. Additionally, the "bull's-eye" pattern of Uranus' rings and moons on the sky meant that Voyager 2 saw only Miranda close-up; the rest of the moons were only seen distantly. 