Soft Tissue Release Sports Rehabilitation Therapy (otherwise known as STR) can help to provide relief from chronic or acute pain in as little as a single session. As such, its a relatively unique injury treatment technique for soft tissue injury with quick results. A specific compression and precision extension technique is a t the heart of STR. A profound opening effect on all micro trauma and scar tissue is effected through coordinated movement administered in a systematic manner. In this way, muscle memory is engaged and relief from pain begins immediately. And that's sometimes little more than a miracle. Conditions that Often Benefit from STR Whiplash injuries including Levator Scapular, Scalenes, SCM, pain "between the shoulder blades", and repetitive-use problems involving Rhomboids, and mid and upper trap. Fibromyalgia ( ). Chronic low back pain including Piriformis Syndrome and the referred problems of Quadratus Lumborum - the two most overlooked, insidious perpetrators of low back pain Sports injuries including plantar fascitis, heel pain, shin splints, knee pain, hamstring, quad, IT band problems, and adductor and groin injuries - as well as carpal tunnel pain and other repetitive use injuries (tennis elbow, rotator cuff, and frozen shoulder problems etc). Parallel Treatment Physical rehabilitation is a process, and not an instant event. Hence, clients are motivated to continue with their treatment by following homework chores (i.e. Active Isolated Stretching in conjunction with STR therapy. This is because muscles, joints and connective tissues all need to maintain constant movement to help prevent postural changes, disease, and injury. In fact pain , soreness and swelling relate directly to a loss of tissue movement. The primary determinants of flexibility are the musculature and fascia surrounding a specific joint. These usually maintain a normal level of flexibility if the muscles and tendons elongate on a regular basis. However the decrease in flexibility that normally accompanies aging results in a failure to maintain this constant movement, and that is a major contributor to old age aches and pains. Active Isolated Stretching focuses on specific muscles in the body that exist in a state of contraction, and is recommended for all patients who are actively willing to participate (for you can take a horse to water but you sure can't make it drink). AIS . Over time the person in need of physical rehabilitation is usually able to bring their contracted muscles to a state of resting length. This has the effect of rejuvenating cells and tissues, and increasing circulation to body parts that had previously done nothing but register discomfort and chronic pain. VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION & EMPLOYMENT SERVICES This arm of the American government that's administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs , supplies information to veterans, employers, and the general public concerning the rehabilitation benefits available to the nation's war heroes. As the great President Lincoln himself said in his Second Inaugural Address to Congress: "To care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphan is the essential contribution all other Americans shall make". Was Abe's Second Inaugural Address the Best of the 19th Century? Abraham Lincoln in Early 1865, Showing the Strain of Playing President The original is kept in the Alexander Gardner/Library of Congress "His greatest speech " is what many Americans call Abraham Lincoln's second inaugural address. When you consider his other contenders - such as his speech at Cooper Union and the Gettysburg Address - then t hat is high praise indeed! Many thousands of citizens streamed into Washington to witness the Saturday inauguration that day. As Abe Lincoln prepared for it the Confederacy had not yet surrendered (although it was obvious that it was so badly damaged that its capitulation was all but inevitable). To the American public, it was obvious that the end of the Civil War was nearing too. The masses were in a reflective and celebratory mood - albeit weary and battered from four years of war, The weather in Washington was rainy and foggy that day . But, just as Abraham Lincoln rose to speak the weather cleared, and rays of sunshine poured through. The crowd gasped. Journalist and poet Walt Whitman - a n "occasional correspondent" for the New York Times - recorded the "flooding splendor from heaven's most excellent sun" in his dispatch. The speech itself is brief and brilliant. Lincoln expressed a heartfelt desire for reconciliation, which, sadly, he would not live to see. His concluding remarks are the great masterpiece of American literature: " With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in, to bind up the nation's wounds, to care for him who shall have borne the battle and for his widow and his orphan , to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations . Let's pause for a moment to reflect on those valiant young men and women who have fallen for their homeland, and in particular, those who lie still in hospital beds of pain. Lincoln's fine and beautiful sentiments lie at the heart of the philosophy and principles that guide the Department of Veteran Affairs and the Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Service to this very day We gift our endeavors to serving our Nation's veterans, and their families without fear or favor. Our mission is enabling our injured soldiers, airmen , sailors - and other military veterans with disabilities - to achieve seamless transition from military service to a successful rehabilitation (and on to suitable employment after brave service to our Nation). The VR&E (Department of Veterans Affair's Veterans Benefits Administration's Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Service) is empowered to provide effective and timely vocational rehabilitation services to veterans with service-connected disabilities. This goal includes ensuring that some severely disabled veterans go on to live independently - given future advances in medical science and technology - so as to achieve the highest quality of life possible and with a realized hope for employment In so doing, the Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Service strives to meet and then exceed the service delivery expectations of veterans and their families. To receive services, a veteran must be found both eligible and entitled. Our main objective to supply free vocational rehabilitation services for veterans who have a service-connected disability. This should lead to employment that is commensurate with their aptitudes and interests. Many reach a plateau of daily living independence. Department of Veteran Affairs and the Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Service also provide the following benefit services: Educational and vocational counseling benefits for eligible dependent children of Vietnam veterans born with certain birth defects- or children of Vietnam or Korean veterans born with Spina Bifida. (In order to be considered for this benefit program, you must be the biological child of a veteran who served in Vietnam or in the Korean demilitarized zone during certain periods in the 1960s or 1970s. You must also have been conceived after the veteran served some time in one of those two places). Educational and Vocational Counseling to veterans themselves, the outcome of which is assistance in the selection of an educational or vocational goal and / or assistance in the selection of training institutions where this goal may be pursued. To apply online for Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Benefits click on Apply Online and then click on the last entry on the pop-up drop-down menu. Use navigation links across the top of the website to connect to information about the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), VA Facilities, Organizations within the VA and Application for Benefits Online. Use the navigation links on the left of the website ( below Benefits Home) to obtain information about Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Program benefits and employment information. The navigation links at the bottom of the website provide additional information regarding the Department of Veterans Affairs. We have arranged that the navigation links which do not go to another Department of Veterans Affairs but to an associated website, will open a new browser window. This is so we never lose you as you surf the internet. To return to the VA website simply close the unrelated browser window that opened. Using the browser back arrow (or clicking on the tab at the bottom of your browser window) should will also return you to the website we hope you also learn to call your home. REQUIREMENTS Enrollment in the College of Health and Human Performance mandatory ACSM, AFAA and/or ACE group exercise leader certification preferred Experience in an area of fitness / wellness essential Excellent leadership potential required Fitness training skills, and basic exercise testing abilities - no exceptions!! REGULAR DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Train and evaluate group exercise leaders and wellness staff. Assist in the daily operation of group exercise and wellness programs. Assist in the coordination of special events to promote group exercise and wellness to patrons. Assist in the selection and supervision of group exercise leaders and wellness staff & assist in the supervision of Fitness Center staff. Assist in the scheduling of group exercise leaders to ensure coverage of a variety of class formats. Assist in the development of fitness and wellness programs. Assist in the scheduling of wellness center staff to ensure coverage. Develop and implement continuing education for Fitness Center staff. Inspect the group exercise and wellness areas and all equipment to ensure cleanliness and safety & replenish first aid kits. Submit detailed semester reports. Assist in the tracking of supplies and equipment. Maintain a thorough understanding of policies and procedures. Be able to perform fitness assessments such as sub maximal bike test, skin fold, sit and reach assessments , etc. Instruct group exercise sessions in a variety of formats, such as step, low-impact, toning, circuit, and water. PROCEDURE We cannot over-state the need to do stretching exercises first, followed by a warm-up. After that: Sit down on the ground wearing regulation Navy shorts, with your legs fully extended in front of you, your feet eight inches apart, your toes pointed upwards, and the soles of your feet flush with the base of the flexibility box. You are allowed to ask a friend to help you press legs down by applying pressure below or above your knees, i f you find it difficult to fully straighten your legs yourself. When comfortable, reach slowly forward, remembering to keep the fingertips of both your hands in contact with the slide at all times. Hold your position for a "two count" after you have reached the furthest extension point that you can reach. SCORING: Scores are measured in quarter-inch increments, rounding up to the nearest quarter-inch. You may have two more attempts (in which case "your best of the three" is your final score). NOW HEAR THIS TOO: Make sure your push is smooth and static. That means no lunging or bouncing whatsoever! A lthough removing your footwear may be advantageous in terms of maximizing your score, that's really up to you (and you won't hear that in the U.S. Navy in many other situations)! 