he will create a sort of trap for his uncle. Hamlet decides to ask the troupe to perform a play with a plot that mirrors the way in which Claudius murdered (he believes) Hamlet's father. If Claudius did indeed kill his brother in the way shown in the play, Hamlet determines, his guilty conscience will surely give him away; he will show some sign of increased emotion or some awareness of his guilt. This, in Hamlet's view, will constitute proof that Claudius is guilty. he seems excited and giddy. Yet the very next time we see him, in Act III, scene i, he launches into "To be or not to be." Something, seemingly, has caused Hamlet's mood to collapse from his witty scheming of the previous act into a deep, dark gloom. What could it be? O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I" soliloquy and his "To be or not to be" soliloquy, that have caused some to call the latter soliloquy disjointed and lacking in coherence. This perspective is more common among directors and actors involved in productions of the play than in scholars of the play; for those producing the play, particularly the actors, the time sequence of Hamlet's mood swing seems unexplained. The actor who plays Hamlet gleefully and giddily describes his cunning plan to entrap Claudius, then leaves the stage, and three minutes later returns to the stage in black despair considering suicide and the futility of all human endeavor. For the actor, however, to cover the distance between these two intense emotional states with barely three minutes between them is incredibly challenging, and many actors and directors have even concluded that this most famous of Shakespeare's soliloquies should be jettisoned from the play. In fact, the shift in moods expressed in the "To be or not to be" soliloquy is not as great as it seems, if it is placed in the context of Hamlet's mood throughout the play. His despair and bitterness have pervaded most of his speech; when these have lifted from time to time, they are replaced not by true relief but by ironical banter or intellectual intensity. It is the levity Hamlet shows after coming up with his idea for the acting troupe that is unusual; he has at last devised some plan of action, and he is on edge with the excitement and relief of taking a step forward. (If anything, Hamlet's mood is calmer and more detached here than in his first soliloquy, which also grappled with suicide. He never speaks of his own concerns, and never uses a personal pronoun. This theme will be developed further below,) It is possible that Hamlet's reflections upon this plan in calmer moments are to some extent responsible for his dark mood the following morning. Though he was caught up in the excitement and craftiness of his plan the night before, Hamlet must at some point have reflected that this sneaky attempt to draw out some kind of emotional reaction from Claudius was, first of all, hardly the sort of bold action he has been attempting to spur himself into ever since encountering his father's ghost. We know that he has some thought of the kind, because he describes himself and his endeavors (albeit indirectly) as having "lost the name of action." Is it a true soliloquy? Some scholars have contended that "To be or not to be" is not a true soliloquy. At the time that the play was first produced, soliloquies had a somewhat more flexible function; it was not considered necessary to distinguish between soliloquies that represented a character's thoughts and those that represented words spoken aloud. Another notable interpretation that deviates from the common understanding of the soliloquy is that of Derek Jacobi, who played Hamlet in several stage settings and in the celebrated BBC television adaptation. To Jacobi, the speech is very clearly not a soliloquy at all, but dialogue - spoken to Ophelia, who is clearly in the room before Hamlet enters it, as she is speaking with Claudius, Polonius, and Gertrude about what she is to do after they leave. They tell her to walk about the room reading a religious text, so that it will not seem strange that she is alone there. It is not indicated that Hamlet sees her before he begins talking, but she is clearly intended to be seen - she is not hidden. Jacobi tried to have this interpretation reflected in the BBC adaptation, but the BBC were reluctant to re-interpret the most famous soliloquy in English literature in such a way that it was no longer a soliloquy. Analysis of themes present in the soliloquy Hamlet's soliloquy, in its thirty-two lines, does express or refer to most of the primary themes of the play, including: the embodiment of Renaissance humanist ideals; intellect versus action versus feeling; Hamlet's detachment from the world around him; death and certainty; death and uncertainty; and Hamlet's bleak vision of life and humanity. Renaissance humanist ideals Shakespeare based his play upon an existing story, that of a prince of Denmark whose uncle, like Hamlet's, murders his brother the king, marries his brother's wife, and is crowned king as the next living heir. The prince in the story feigns madness, as Hamlet does, in order to mislead his uncle about whether he poses a threat. When his uncle's guard is down, the prince murders his uncle, achieving retributive justice. That is, cultivating and strengthening the intellect would lead naturally to one's being able to make reasonable choices about how to act, and then to follow through on those directions with resolve and purpose. This description could be taken as the prescription Hamlet attempts - and mostly fails - to follow for the entire play. Tension between reason and action This theme of the interplay between reason or intellect and action is at the center of the play, and its presence in the soliloquy is the first piece of evidence to bolster the interpretation that these thirty-two lines are a distillation of the most fundamental themes of the play. Which choice, in the end, would have the greater claim to bravery? It is significant, especially for this particular theme, that Hamlet asks the last question by wondering which choice is "nobler in the mind." It is the questioner's own judgment, not that of God or fellow citizens or anyone else, that matters - and it is his intellectual judgment, not his moral sensibilities, that will decide this question. In this respect, Hamlet is, or aims to be, the ideal of the Renaissance humanist man. The soliloquy thus puts forward one of the play's central questions: if rational thought will not serve, then how should one go about determining a reasonable course of purposive action and putting it into effect? In the soliloquy and elsewhere, Hamlet expresses mistrust for the notion that humans have the ability to decide upon a goal and then purposefully control their actions toward that end. In the lines quoted above, he is saying essentially that the proper sequence is inspiration-resolve-action, without the interposition of thought. This explains nearly every action that Hamlet takes in the play, which he does with violence and blind, reckless abandon. This is another way in which the "To be or not to be" soliloquy contains a fine distillation of a theme that is fundamental to the play. The soliloquy presents death as both a final resolution to all the pains and ambiguities of life, and something so unknowable and uncertain that it is more frightening even than staying alive. It also presents the contemplation of death's mysteries as the enemy of bold, decisive action. This complex relationship among death, uncertainty, the intellectual pursuit of certainty, and action is at the very heart of the play. It is often said that Hamlet is a play about a character's fatal indecision and his failure to overcome his own doubts in order to take necessary action. It may be more compelling, however, to think of it as grappling with questions of what may be considered adequate basis for action in a world full of ambiguities and uncertainties. Since we cannot ever completely know the mind of another person, nor hope to be fully informed eyewitnesses to every event about which we must make a judgment, all humans are necessarily coping with uncertainty and incomplete knowledge in every moment of every day, and with regard to every significant decision we must make. , but he is praying as Hamlet approaches, and the audience (though not Hamlet) can hear him freely confess to the crime. We may be convinced now that the fatal blow will finally fall. But Hamlet stays his hand. His reason for waiting, Hamlet says to himself, is that he wants his vengeance to be more complete. With this retreat once more to indecision, Hamlet has surpassed the need he felt before simply to be sure about the facts of his father's death before taking action. Now, he feels he must have insight - certain insight - into metaphysical matters before he can act. He must understand God, the fate of the soul, and all the mysteries of life after death before he can exact retribution for the murder of his father. Just as he does in the "To be or not to be" soliloquy, Hamlet has succeeding in using his love of philosophical contemplation to avoid the question or action imperative that is immediately at hand, or to talk himself out of it.