If you have obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), you feel you have no control over certain thoughts, idea or urges, which seem to force themselves into your mind, repeatedly. These thoughts obsessions are often frightening or distressing, or seem so unacceptable that you cant share them with others.

Most people with OCD know that their obsessions and compulsions make no sense, but they can't ignore or stop them. We all have habits and routines in our daily lives, such as brushing our teeth before bed. However, for people with OCD, patterns of behavior get in the way of their daily lives.

OCD is not a psychotic disorder, such as schizophrenia, whereby people feel that certain thoughts and ideas come from somewhere outside themselves (hallucinations). If you have OCD, you know that its your own thoughts tormenting you. Note: some people only experience obsessive thoughts, without having any compulsions; others have compulsions without knowing why they feel the need to do them.

OCD is similar to a phobia, which is another anxiety disorder. In both cases, fear brings on symptoms of anxiety and panic, including a racing heart, churning stomach, dizziness, shortness of breath, sweating and trembling. A phobia also involves an exaggerated fear of something that does not represent a realistic danger; but other people can usually relate to it, or even share it. But with OCD the fear is of your own thoughts, and other people may not be able to relate to this or understand it at all. Whats more, someone who has a phobia can often avoid the thing that triggers their phobia, such as cats or spiders, but with OCD, these devastating thoughts are unavoidable, and are constantly ready to emerge.

The anxiety caused by experiencing obsessions and compulsions feeds back into the problem, creating a vicious circle and making the OCD worse. Often, people with OCD are also depressed, and this may also be partly or wholly due to the experience of OCD. The symptoms of OCD can be very distressing and can seriously disrupt normal life. We all worry, occasionally, about whether we've left the gas on, or the door locked, and we describe people as being obsessed with work, football, a girlfriend or boyfriend. Many of us indulge in small, everyday rituals without thinking, such as throwing salt over our shoulder, or not crossing the path of a black cat. We may be compulsive in the way we straighten things up, or in cleaning more than is strictly necessary. As many as four-fifths of us may experience minor obsessions or compulsions, such as these, from time to time. The idea of 'being obsessed' is something that is very much part of everyday language; the distinction between this and OCD is in its severity.

With OCD, the problems are so severe that they interfere with everyday life. It might mean spending eight to ten hours a day washing, with hands red-raw and bleeding. Or it might mean repeatedly dressing and undressing, or running up and down stairs. You may understand that the way you are behaving is irrational, and may feel ashamed and alone because of it, and unable to ask for help.

You may not realize how common such problems are. OCD affects people of all ages. It's possible that up to three per cent of the population may experience the symptoms, although only those who are most severely affected usually ask for help. Some research suggests that as many as one per cent of children may have OCD, at any one time. Problems can start as young as four or five years old, and may continue into adult life.

What are obsessions? Obsessions are ideas, images and impulses that run through the person's mind over and over again. A person with OCD doesn't want to have these thoughts and finds them disturbing, but he or she can't control them. Sometimes these thoughts just come once in a while and are only mildly annoying. Other times, a person who has OCD will have obsessive thoughts all the time.

What are compulsions? Obsessive thoughts make people who have OCD feel nervous and afraid. They try to get rid of these feelings by performing certain behaviors according to "rules" that they make up for themselves. These behaviors are called compulsions. (Compulsive behaviors are sometimes also called r ituals.) For example, a person who has OCD may have obsessive thoughts about germs. Because of these thoughts, the person may wash his or her hands repeatedly after using a public toilet.

Performing these behaviors usually only makes the nervous feelings go away for a short time. When the fear and nervousness return, the person who has OCD repeats the routine all over again.

Other theories suggest it is caused by personal experience. The origins may lie in childhood and early experience. One or both parents may have had similar anxiety and shown similar kinds of behaviour, such as obsessional washing, for example. Or it may be linked to a trauma, such as being sexually abused, possibly causing an obsessive fear of men and a dread of contamination by them. The obsessions can be triggered by particular memories and experiences. Personality may play a large part in whether and how people respond. Its suggested that people who are perfectionists by nature may be more prone to obsessions or OCD. The way you see the world will influence how you respond to life.

These views may be based on assumptions that are flawed or incorrect, without you even knowing it, because youve never challenged them. These convictions may have become quite unshakeable, because your experience of life always seems to reinforce them. To give a very simplified example, you might be brought up by anxious parents to feel your environment is very threatening. This may lead you to believe that unless you wash constantly, dangerous germs may make you very ill. This view could be based on your parents misunderstanding information from a doctor (see the quote above). As a result of this, the world may feel like a very dangerous place to you, because germs are all around and cant be controlled. In this way, your experience of life may already have made you more prone than average to OCD (and there are likely to be other factors or negative experiences contributing to this). If you, or someone you love, then fall very ill, it may reinforce your feelings of vulnerability, making you more anxious.

You may begin to be troubled by frightening thoughts that something bad is going to happen to your own children. You may eventually come to feel that the only way to keep everybody safe, and to cope with your intolerable anxiety, is to wash your hands, repeatedly.

Are other illnesses associated with OCD? People who have OCD often have other kinds of anxiety, like phobias (such as fear of spiders or fear of flying) or panic attacks. People who have OCD also may have depression, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), an eating disorder or a learning disorder such as dyslexia. Having one or more of these disorders can make diagnosis and treatment more difficult, so it's important to talk to your doctor about any symptoms you have, even if you're embarrassed.

Under the guidance of a trained therapist, behavioral therapy can also be used to treat OCD. In behavioral therapy, people face situations that cause or trigger their obsessions and anxiety. Then they are encouraged not to perform the rituals that usually help control their nervous feelings. For example, a person who is obsessed with germs might be encouraged to use a public toilet without washing his or her hands more than once. To use this method, a person who has OCD must be able to tolerate the high levels of anxiety that can result from the experience.

CBT is a form of counselling or therapy which aims to identify connections between thoughts, feelings and behaviour, and to help develop practical skills to manage them. There is considerable evidence to suggest that this therapy is especially effective in dealing with OCD. The behavioural element (also known as exposure therapy or desensitisation) helps people face fears and reduces their rituals. You could work with a psychologist, a psychiatrist, therapist, counsellor or primary care mental health worker within an agreed treatment plan. Who you would be working with will depend on the severity of the disorder.

It will also depend on what services are available in your area. The Government is aiming to train many more practitioners to provide CBT on the NHS. NICE (The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence) suggests that CBT should be the preferred form of talking therapy when treating OCD. Neurosurgery for mental disorder Surgery on the brain neurosurgery (previously known as psychosurgery) is sometimes used in severe cases of OCD, when other treatments have been unsuccessful. This treatment is strictly regulated under the Mental Health Act, and can't be given without consent. It's used very rarely.

What help is available? Under the Care Programme Approach (CPA) in England, and its equivalent in Wales, everyone referred to psychiatric services should be provided with an assessment of their social and health care needs, a care plan, a care coordinator and a regular review. You are entitled to say what your needs are and have a right to have an advocate, who can listen to you and speak for you, if you like. The assessment can also include the needs of carers and relatives. Community care services Social services can make an assessment of your needs for community care services, separately, if required. These involve everything from day care to housing needs and advice and help on practical matters, such as accommodation and welfare benefits. Their aim is to provide services in the home or in supported accommodation. You might need careworkers, and since many areas now charge for this, this cost should be included in the needs assessment.

(Whether you have to pay for it yourself depends on your financial situation.) Direct payments Once your community care assessment has confirmed that you need services, you may be eligible to claim direct payments, which will allow you to buy the care you need yourself, rather than social services providing it. Local social services or the National Centre for Independent Living should be able to provide this information Community Mental Health Teams The local Community Mental Health Team (CMHT) can make this assessment. They provide services in the community through a mixed team of social and health care professionals. The team might include a social worker, (see Community care services , below), a psychiatrist, a psychologist, an occupational therapist, and a community psychiatric nurse who can help with medication. It may also include a counsellor and community support workers. One of the team members will act as care coordinator. He or she should be in regular contact with you.

What can people do for themselves? Treatment of OCD often includes a combination of strategies, including self-help. You may wish to devise your own self-help programme, based on cognitive behaviour therapy techniques. The organisations listed below can offer advice and details of such programmes.

Self-help groups It can be useful to share experiences and methods of coping with others. Self-help groups can provide help, support and encouragement, whether or not you are having professional help. But they can be of particular benefit if you are operating your own programme. You could contact your local Mind association or social services, who may be able to tell you if there is a group local to you.

You could also try any of the organisations listed under Useful Organisations. Relaxation techniques Relaxation techniques can teach you: how to improve your breathing to lessen tension action plans to help you progress from coping with non-stressful situations, to those that you find difficult. physical exercises to do to relax your muscles Local services You should be able to get information about local mental health services from your GP, social services department of your council, local Mind association, Community Mental Health Team, or Patient Advice and Liaison Services (in England) or your Community Health Council (in Wales). These include details of local projects that provide services to particular communities, such as Black and minority ethnic communities, women, disabled people, lesbians and gay men.

You may also find details in your local phone book. What can friends or family do to help? As a friend or family member of someone with OCD, you can help a lot just by accepting their feelings and knowing that they find it difficult to cope with them. It can be particularly difficult for someone experiencing the symptoms of OCD to acknowledge their thoughts, and if you give them the impression they are being difficult or exaggerating, it can result in greater distress and anxiety. It can be distressing to be close to someone experiencing OCD.

You might find it useful to talk to other people in the same situation, and to find out more about these complex problems. Try contacting one of the organisations listed below. Useful organisations Samaritans Chris, PO Box 9090, Stirling FK8 2SA helpline: 08457 90 90 90 email: jo@samaritans.org web: www.samaritans.org 24-hour help Triumph Over Phobia (TOPUK) PO Box 344, Bristol BS34 8ZR tel. 0845 600 9601 web: www.topuk.org

A national network of structured self-help groups Carers UK helpline: 0808 808 7777 tel. 020 7922 8000 web: www.carersuk.org Information and advice on all aspects of caring National Phobics Society Zion CRC, 339 Stretford Road, Hulme, Manchester M15 4ZY tel. 08444 775 774 web: www.phobics-society.org.uk Information, counselling, helpline and online support for those suffering from anxiety disorders British Association for Behavioural and Cognitive Psychotherapies (BABCP) tel. 0161 797 4484 web: www.babcp.com Can provide details of accredited therapists First Steps to Freedom tel.

0845 120 2916 (helpline and general enquiries) web: www.first-steps.org Practical help to those who suffer from anxiety disorders, and their family and friends National Centre for Independent Living (NCIL) tel. 020 7587 1663 web: www.ncil.org.uk Provides information and advice on direct payments OCD Action tel. 0845 390 6232 (help and information line) web: www.ocdaction.org.uk Information and support specifically for sufferers of OCD OCD-UK PO Box 8955, Nottingham NG10 9AU tel. 0845 120 3778 (office) web: www.ocduk.org A charity run by people with OCD who campaign and can help with local support group information British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy (BACP) tel.

0870 443 5252 web: www.bacp.co.uk For details of local practitioners No Panic 93 Brands Farm Way, Randlay, Telford, Shropshire TF3 2JQ helpline: 0808 808 0545 tel. 01952 590 005 web: www.nopanic.org.uk Support for people experiencing anxiety disorders