Penguins are considered as birds. They also have feathers, beaks, wings, and can lay eggs as well.Their closest relatives are other fish-eating seabirds such as albatrosses, petrels, and shear waters. Recent DNA sampling has shown that albatrosses and penguins are related.

Penguins can swim with a surprising grace. Their body is a wedge-shaped, like a boat, and can easily move through water. Their strong, flipper-shaped wings work well under water as well. Penguins usually dive to find prey like fish, krill or squid. The Emperor penguins have been recorded diving to depths of 1,300 feet (396 m); they can stay under water for as long as 30 minutes.

Penguins don't have teeth only soft, flexible bristles on their tongues and in their throats that keep slippery fish from wiggling away. .Penguins range in size from the small two-pound (1 kg), 16-inch (41 cm) little blue penguin to the large 84-pound (38 kg), 51-inch (130 cm) emperor penguin. They've adapted to environments different as Antarctic ice fields and the tropical G alapagos islands.Penguins are a type of flightless bird that love to spend most of its life in the sea, seldom visiting land except when raising their young. On land, they can able to stand upright and walk with a waddle.

They may appear slow, but penguins actually walk about as fast as people.

They can easily be recognized by their black cap, blue-grey neck, orange ear-patches and bills and yellow breasts. There is a thick layer of blubber under the Emperor's skin which is covered by a dense layer of woolly down where an overlapping coat of feathers grows over. The outer feathers, however, are covered in a greasy waterproof coating.

Gentoos diet rely on crustaceans such as krill, with 15% of fish. However, they are opportunistic feeders, and around the Falklands are known to take roughly equal proportions of fish (Patagonotothen sp., Thysanopsetta naresi, Micromesistius australis), crustaceans (Munida gregaria) and squid (Loligo gahi, Gonatus antarcticus, Moroteuthis ingens). In the water, leopard seals , sea lions, and orca are all Gentoo's predators. There are no predators of full grown Gentoos on land, however, but birds are not known to steal their eggs and chicks but some birds have snatched chicks.

The Erect-crested penguins can only be found in the New Zealand sub antarctic region. You will have to take a cruise around these islands to see these penguins. They measure 67 cm. in length and weighs up to 4 kg. and have short, stiff, and yellow crests. Rockhopper penguins are opportunistic feeders.

They live with the varying proportions of crustaceans (Euphausia lucens, E. vallentini, Thysanoessa gregaria and Themisto sp.), squid (Gonatus antarcticus, Loligo gahi, Onychoteuthis sp, and Teuthowenia sp.) and various small fish. Magellanic penguin - Spheniscus magellanicus Magellanic penguins are also found around Falkland Islands and coast of South America and on some South Atlantic islands. It is around 70 cm. long and has an average weight of 4 kg. These penguins diet rely on fish, squid, and crustaceans. Their sea predators are sea lions, seals, and killer whales.

Magellanic penguin are publicly displayed in North America's zoos.

PENGUINS' COLOR With the penguins dark back and white fronts, they look as if they're wearing tuxedos. However, they're dressed for success because their color pattern actually makes them harder for predators to spot when at sea. When you observe penguins color, their dark back can hardly be seen against the dark depths below, and when looking up, its white belly can hardly be seen against the sunlit surface. WHAT KEEPS THEM WARM Penguins love to swim in the ocean's coldest and most food-rich currents. In order to survive the chill, these warm-blooded penguins rely on their small and densely packed feathers and fat for insulation.

The base of each feather traps an insulating layer of air against the bird's skin and tips of the feathers are overlapping to form a waterproof outer coat. The oil from the penguin's gland at the base of its tail helps waterproof the feathers. When a penguin cleans up, it spreads the oil all throughout its feathers. Antarctic penguins also rely on layers of fat in keeping themselves warm.

Typically, when it has a colder climate, it also has a fatter penguin. Furthermore, the penguin's stored fat enables them to go without food while molting or brood ing their eggs.

PENGUIN AS PET All species of penguins are protected so that you could only get or see a penguin from a Zoo that had legally bred it. Things penguins do need to survive: Penguins need a constant and reliable supply of fresh frozen fish as well as appropriate vitamin supplements. There is also a need for a veterinarian who has a familiarity with pe nguins and the many diseases they are susceptible to when they are kept in captivity. Penguins need to be able to feed every day , so you couldn't take anymore vacations.

You can't just put a penguin into shelters. Penguins need to be built a suitable enclosure where they are to be kept - because different species have very different environmental requirements like temperature, vegetation, etc.) Plus all species of penguins require access to a large, deep and clean pool of salt water. Penguins tend to live in large colonies - anything less than say 20 birds would not be sufficient. Zoos reckon it costs around 700 US$ yearly in order to keep a penguin. Remember that nearly all species are endangered to some extent or another. It is strongly not recommended for anyone to keep a penguin as a pet. You can have the cuddly toy variety though.

PENGUINS' SOCIAL INTERACTION Penguins gather in colonies of hundreds or even millions when nesting and molting. This is not surprising because penguins need to communicate to get along with others. Males and their mated pairs actually defend nesting territories that extend from the nest to the far reach of the owner's bill within the crowded colony. However, intruders are common and the owners oppose them with pecks, squawks, and wing slaps that connotes 'get out!' Pairs establish and maintain their life-long bond with frequent calls and displays by flapping their wings, shaking their heads, and bowing to tell their mates and other penguins how they feel.