REGISTRATION General Requirements First-Time Registration You need to register your vehicle as a first-time registration if you answer yes to any of the following questions: Did you just purchase a vehicle? Do you need to transfer a vehicles ownership to yourself? Have you just moved to Virginia? Only new residents need to register their vehicles within 30 days after establishing residency. 1) Get Insuranc e You must either show proof of insurance or other financial responsibility, or pay the Uninsured Motor Vehicle (UMV) fee upon vehicle registration. The UMV fee is good for 12 months, yet because it doesn't provide coverage, you may compare affordable insurance rates instead. 2) Paperwork Your dealer may handle both your vehicles title transfer and registration, but if you're dealing with another first-time registration, you'll take care of it all by yourself. NOTE: Before you register your vehicle, make sure you're done with the titling process, which includes a different set of paperwork and fees. When its time to prepare the registration paperwork: Locate your vehicles title. Obtain proof of insurance, or be prepared to pay the UMV fee. Have proof your vehicle has passed a safety inspection (if applicable) Have proof your vehicle has passed an emissions inspection (if applicable) Complete a Vehicle Registration Application . You may consider obtaining a Vehicle History Report (VHR) for any vehicle you're eyeing to purchase. That will help you prevent from buying a vehicle with a shady past and potentially expensive future. 3) Calculate the Fees Registration fees depend on various factors, which include your vehicles weight, the length of the registration period, and even your license plates. Find out whether your area participates in the Local Vehicle Registration Program ; if so, you must pay both the state and local registration fees. First-Time Fees Determine first your exact fees before heading to the DMV office. Put in mind that first-time registration fees can pack a punch, especially when you work on titling fees and other additional fees. Additional Fees I f your vehicle continues to fail the emissions inspection , you may be charged for additional registration fees. You opt to pay the UMV fee rather than obtain insurance, or you decide to order specialty plates. Also, you may pay additional fees during the registration period. 4) Go to the DMV Go visit your local DMV to register your vehicle personally. Vehicle Inspections You may need to prepare for two kinds of vehicle inspections : 1. The first is the safety inspection , which is part of the Virginia Motor Vehicle Safety Inspection Program . Generally, this applies to all vehicles that aren't brand new and straight off the car lot. This costs $16 for regular passenger. If your vehicle fails the inspection, a rejection sticker will be affixed on your vehicle's windshield, which is good for 15 days , in which time you must make necessary repairs before the vehicle be reinspected. 2. The second is the emissions inspection . Only those mentioned below are required to undergo an emissions inspection: Vehicles are registered in certain counties. Vehicles of certain makes, models, and years (for example, motorcycles, hybrids, and antiques are exempt). Vehicles that don't run on clean fuel. Vehicles that don't have a Manufacturers Certification of Origin. Vehicles that don't already have valid emissions inspection certificates from several cooperating states . Although the fee for an emissions inspection varies , it doesn't exceed to more than $28. If your vehicle fail on its first retest, it is free. NOTE: If you need a 30-day temporary registration to have your vehicles emissions inspected, you can apply for one only after you title your vehicle. License Plates Most passenger vehicles receive two license plates―one for the front of the vehicle, and one for the back―and whether you receive these plates in person or by mail depends on your situation. Before you agree to standard-issued license plates, check out the kinds of specialty plates the DMV offers. You may even want to set them off with a couple of nice frames . 5) Affix Your Decals Your decals show your registrations expiration date, and the DMV will probably affix the first set to your license plates for you. If not, simply follow the included instructions, or contact your nearest DMV. LICENSING AND REGISTRATION If you are new to Virginia and purchase or will drive a vehicle, these steps will give you the information you need to drive on Virginia's highways. Apply for a Virginia driver's license Information you need to review/study to obtain a driver's license Eligibility Requirements Applying for a Virginia License Virginia Driver's Manual Acceptable Documents for Obtaining a Driver's License or Photo Identification Card (DMV 141) Obtain a vehicle safety inspection sticker To ensure that your vehicle is mechanically safe to operate on the highways, it must pass an annual vehicle safety inspection. Virginia's emissions inspection standards (your vehicle must meet Virginia's emissions standards when you register it). Emissions inspections are valid for 2 years and may be obtained by having your vehicle inspected at a certified emissions inspection station. When you have your vehicle inspected in Virginia, the emissions station will update your vehicle record at DMV. Your vehicle must pass an emissions inspection before registration if garaged in the counties of Arlington, Fairfax, Loudoun, Prince William, or Stafford, or the cities of Alexandria, Fairfax, Falls Church, Manassas, or Manassas Park. If your vehicle is being registered for the first time in Virginia and has a current valid emissions certificate (performed in the last 12 months) from one of the following states, it may be titled and registered without a Virginia emissions inspection: Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, the District of Columbia, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Washington, or Wisconsin . The emissions inspection should not cost more than $28. At the time of registration, vehicles subject to the emissions program will be charged an additional $2 annually used to cover the cost of the emissions inspection program. Meet Virginia's vehicle insurance requirements (your vehicle must be insured when you register it) Virginia law requires the following minimum insurance coverage for all registered vehicles to protect their citizens, . Or, if insurance is not an option, pay a $500 uninsured motor vehicle fee (UMV). Paying this fee doesn't provide insurance coverage. However, it does allow you to register and operate your vehicle in Virginia for a year. Take note of this that if you register your vehicle in Virginia not covered by liability insurance and you don't pay the UMV fee, you'll be charged a $500 fine, driver's license suspension and vehicle registration(s), and higher insurance premiums for the next three years. Whenever you obtain or cancel a liability policy, or add or remove a vehicle from a policy, the insurance company notifies DMV immediately. From the moment you register your vehicle to the day the registration period expires, your vehicle must be covered by a liability policy issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in Virginia - even if the vehicle is not working or not being used. Please be reminded that if you sell, trade or dispose your vehicle, be sure to notify DMV if you want to transfer the license plates to another insured vehicle. If you don't want to transfer your license plates, please return them to any DMV customer service center before you cancel your insurance. Failure to comply with the mentioned insurance policies will result in fines, suspension of driver's license, and cancellation of the registrations on all vehicles that you own or co-own. Title your vehicle in Virginia (do this within 30 days of moving to Virginia) To register your vehicle in Virginia and obtain license plates, you must first title your vehicle within 30 days of moving to Virginia. Register your vehicle and acquire license plates (do this within 30 days of moving to Virginia) Keep the registration card with you whenever you operate the vehicle. After you have insured and titled your vehicle, register it at any Virginia DMV customer service center. Your registration fee is determined by: the empty weight or gross weight of your vehicle, the type of license plate you purchase (see special license plates section), and the period of time, one or two years, you choose to register your vehicle. A two-year registration costs twice the annual fee and provides added convenience for customers. * The two-year renewal option is not available for vehicles with a gross weight of 55,000 pounds or more, vehicles registered under the International Registration Plan or uninsured vehicles. License Plates DMV will issue you two license plates, 1) two decals showing the expiration date, and 2) a registration card. Place the decals as indicated on the plates. Place the plates on the front and rear of your vehicle so that they are securely fastened and clearly visible. If your vehicle is a motorcycle, DMV will issue you just one license plate for the vehicle. It is illegal to mount license plates frames, colored glass, plastic or any other type of covering on your license plates that alters or obscures the letters, numbers, decals or the state where the vehicle is registered, and when the registration expires. Obtain a local sticker or decal from your locality (do this within 30 days of moving to Virginia) Contact or visit your locality to find information for your local Commissioner of the Revenue, Treasurer or Director of Finance. Miscellaneous If your vehicle has tinted windows, make sure the tinting complies with Virginia's sunshading specifications. DMV is authorized to issue waivers to individuals who have medical conditions requiring restriction from sunlight or bright artificial light. If you are a male, U. S. citizen or living abroad or a male immigrant (permanent resident alien) residing in the U. S. aged 18 t0 25, you are required to register with the Selective Service System. 