Our upbringing too can influence our eating habits. Those of us brought up to eat everythong on our plates, with warnings about children starving in Africa are more likely to feel guilty leaving food even as an adult. We can also easily be influenced by the eating habits of people around us.

If our friends and family start putting on weight, it does increase the chances of you putting on weight too.

The first thing to do is to speak to your doctor before you start on diet. They will be able to rule out any possible underlying conditions that could be causing you to gain weight, and they'll be able to make some suggestions about how much weight you should be losing to get to a healthy level, and at what rate you should be losing it to not have any adverse effects on your health. Sometimes it can be hard to keep track of what we are actually eating, so it's a good idea to keep a food journal. Write down everything you eat and drink for a week, then you can look over it and see where your weaknesses lie. You'll look and feel better, but it can be difficult. Cutting down on your favourite treats and increasing the amount of exercise you do can feel like a real chore.

However there are plenty of ways to eat sensibly and lose weight without having to follow a fad diet or deprive yourself too much. There are lots of different diets to choose from, and some are more sensible than others and more likely to result in real long term weight loss. Which diet you choose will depend on you, your body and your personality too. It's important to pick a diet that suits you as you're then more likely to stick to it.

Think about how and when you eat. Do you always have snacks when you're watching television? Do you reward youself with food, or do you eat when you're stressed or when you're bored? Are you getting enough sleep? Lack of sleep has been directly linked to hunger and overeating. Recognizing your eating triggers can really help you to control them. Once you've identified them you can then work towards changing your eating habits.

Making lots of small changes can go a long way towards helping you maintain a healthy weight. try swapping your standard fizzy drinks for diet versions and you'll save a lot of calories. Also cutting out sugar from your hot drinks will add to your calorie savings. Some people are shocked when they work out how many calories they are adding to their diet with their 'healthy' morning glass of orange juice, or a high fat latte. Drinks can really add up when it comes to calories and fat, and we don't notice them because we don't see it as eating. Try to think about the balance of your meals too.

Simply increasing the healthy stuff and reducing the things that are bad for you, can mean you can still have your favourite meals. For example if you love sausages with mashed potato and carrots. Have one sausage instead of two, and double up on the carrots. If you love creamy mashed potato then don't use butter, use a little skimmed milk instead. You'll still really enjoy this meal and you'll have saved quite a lot of calories and fat, without feeling deprived.

Many diets fail, if you find all your dieting efforts come to nothing. It's a good idea to work out exactly why. Have you given up because you feel deprived? There are plenty of d iets that make you cut out particular types of food such as sugar, carbs or fat. Cutting out foods entirely is not all that good for you, your body needs these things, you should be cutting down not cutting out.

Has your weight reached a plateau, and you seem unable to lose any more? This will be because your body has adjusted to your new eating regime. Exercise is the key now to furthe weight loss. Perhaps you gave in and ate something very bad for you? Don't give up because you made one mistake. We all make mistakes, and we're allowed an occasional treat.

Just bear it in mind and try to be especially healthy the next day to make up for it! You may give up simply due to the cost of your diet. If you're on a diet that involves you spending a lot of money on special food, shakes or classes, you might want to consider simply cooking your own healthy food in smaller portions. If you eat while doing something else, like watching the television, you are likely to eat more, so when you eat, give your meal your full attention. Eat slowly and savour each bite. Concentrate on enjoying every aspect of your food, the smell, the taste and the texture. Chew your food properly and don't rush. If you find you're eating too fast then try a little trick to slow yourself down, such as using chopsticks, or eating with your fork in your non-dominant hand.

If you feel full, then stop. Don't finish off your plate of food simply because it is there! Putting your food on smaller plates will also make you feel like you're having a larger portion. Try starting your meal with a bowl of soup or a salad to fill you up before you have your main course. Or even just drinking a glass of water can help you eat less of your main course.

Eating out can be difficult when you're on a diet. It can be hard to know exactly what is in a dish when you're reading a description on a menu, and restaurant food is often very rich and full of high fat ingredients such as cream and oily salad dressings. Don't be afraid to ask for changes to your dishes though. Asking for a salad without the dressing, or a streak without the sauce will save you a lot of fat and calories.

If you are dining with a guest then suggest that you share a starter or dessert rather than having one each, and do watch out for those alcoholic drinks as the calories will really add up.

You will be more inclined to eat in moderation if you have thought out healthy meals in advance, and eat when are truly hungry, so put some thought into planning your meals and snacks in advance, so when you get peckish there will always be something healthy to have without being tempted to eat something bad for y ou. The high water and fibre content in most fruits and vegetables make them ideal for healthy snacking and meals. Also don't go shopping when you are hungry. It will make you far more likely to buy high calories items and impulse buy treats.

If you usually reward yourself with food, make a list of little treats you can use as rewards that don't involve food or alcohol. Perhaps a massage, a new book or a trip to the cinema, but be sure to pass on the popcorn and fizzy drinks! Weight loss with take will power and it won't always be easy, but it doesn't need to be so bad.

You can still eat your favourite foods, in moderation. Portion control is very important when it comes to dieting. Simply reducing the size of your meals could be all you need to reach your ideal weight.

Making a few small changes can really make a big difference, so don't opt for the crash diets, think long term and change your eating habits instead. You'll reach your goal at a steady pace, and you'll learn the skills to maintain that weight for the rest of your life.