Indian Art Indian culture is more than 5000 years old and as a result, the Indian art is rich in its tapestry of heritage from ancient, medieval, Mughal and British period followed by progressive and contemporary art. The earliest recorded art forms of India originated from a religious Hindu background. This was later replaced by popular Buddhist art. Indian art has been inspired by spiritualism as well as mystical relationship between God and man. Indian art has survived in its homeland and at the same time it has spread from India to all over the world. This became possible due to a number of kings who recognized the budding Indian talent and patronized art. Each king had left an impression of his affinity towards the artist community. Until today, art in India is patronized by the rich and prosperous people in the country.

Indian artists relied mainly on religious scriptures for inspiration and they flourished under the patronage of their rulers. Their art has been able to survive the ravages of time and it has a unique place in the historical records of the country. Water colors, vegetable dyes and charcoal were different methods of painting that were quite popular. Fabric painting was quite extensive and the present Indian designers still adapt ancient patterns on modern fabrics. In ancient India, the purpose of art was not only to adorn the walls. Each and every painting had its own story to narrate.

Ancient Indian art was quite colorful, aesthetic and also appealing to the naked eye. Marble and stone were also used for creating art. Even today, Indian sculpture remains a mute testimony of talent that emerged under different rulers. One purpose of art was to spread the word around about the king and to glorify his deeds. Indian art symbolized the prosperity of various empires in ancient India. Most of the art forms were produced in order to promote religious activities. Most of the Hindu kings were well wishers of Brahmin community. As a matter of fact, art was an extension of their respect and tribute to the knowledgeable class.

Most of the artworks depict scenes from Indian epics like Ramayana, Mahabharata and other mythological stories that continue to inspire artists even today. Today a number of many artists are busy producing great pieces of art and exhibiting them in various parts of the country and also abroad. Many Indian paintings are easily finding buyers in other countries.

The uniqueness of Indian Art is due to its rich cultural heritage. The Indian art mart has gone global and like many other sectors it is considered as an economically viable proposition for business. The paintbrush has become as powerful as a pen for a number of Indians.

Indian Monuments Stories and legends have been told about the great monuments in India. As India has a vast culture, the revelations and interesting facts and are marvelous. When you look at the beauty of Taj Mahal, you can easily see the love Emperor Shah Jahan had for his wife Mumtaz Mahal.

Ustad Isa Khan, the architect who designed this monument has surely provided one of the best heritage sites to India. Down south is located the Meenakshi Sundareshwar temple. The temple bears the Shiv linga that was worshipped by Lord Indra to absolve him from sin. Thistemple is a granite form and it has twelve gopuras. Gopuras are basically the traditional architectural towers located in the south of India. There are a number of shrines with the primary two shrines of Shiva and Parvathy.

The Nagara architecture can be seen in the Khajuraho temples. The works of Khajuraho temples are in rough granite and depict tradition. Pictures of Gods and Goddesses have been represented. The beauty of apsaras and deities can easily be seen in the carvings. The interior has been well designed to allow air and light to come in and this is certainly a place that the tourists must visit.

The Goan churches are spell bounding with their masterpiece works. In these churches in Goa, the fade, the dome shaped ceiling, interiors and painted windows are simply a treat to ones eyes. These Portuguese churches are typical in their setting. St Francis of Asisi and Chapel of St. Cahterine are the masterpieces.

The Ajanta and Ellora caves are located in Aurangabad and these are thirty in number. Most of the heritage sites have been found as a result of accidental discovery and as a matter of fact, this was also found by a group of British people who had gone on a hunting expedition. There's a prayer hall and a monastery which strongly suggests Buddhist culture in the Ajanta caves. At the same time, the Ellora shows the traces of Buddhist, Jain and Hindu religions The Agra fort over banks of Yamuna is yet another great place. The red stone colour used in the Agrs fort is unique with its grandeur effect of architecture. Fatehpur Sikri was at its peak during Akbar's administration. The tomb of Saint Sheik S Chisti, Bulund Darwaza Jama Masjid, Konark temple, Hampi and Qutab Minar are some of the famous monuments of India.

Investment goals are the primary factor for Real Estate Business Investment. There is a slight difference between investing in real estate business and other types of investments. Investing in real estate business requires good knowledge along with an ability to invest in a good piece of land. You need be aware of financial and legal requirements for your real estate. In case you have made up your mind about renting your property, then you need to have sufficient knowledge laws about tenants and about tenant problems. Real estate market offers different investment strategies. You should choose the best strategy according to your requirements.

Efficient real estate business investors make great their fortunes in real estate business They can earn tremendous amounts of profits with single right time real estate business investment.Real estate investment requires great commercial skills and knowledge like other businesses. Investment in commercial real estate business is the best possible way to get more revenues. Keep in mind that an investment made at the right time is the best opportunity to get more returns. You should consult financial advisers who will provide help to find the best commercial real estate. Investment in commercial real estate is not only good for large investors but also for small ones .The secret of success in the real estate world is to make as many transactions as possible, and that is where a real estate business plan comes in. Moreover, a well written real estate business investment plan serves as a blueprint and a guideline. It can be quite challenging to get such a business off the ground, especially in a situation when a there is a slowdown in the market. Preparing a high quality real estate business plan is possible with the help of an experienced real estate investor, but it is also a good idea to ask for help from a qualified professional.

Having an accountant or a tax professional take a look at your real estate business plan can provide you with some much needed insights. In addition to this, having your real estate business plan reviewed by a qualified real estate attorney will also ensure that the document is legally sound and that it does not contain errors or omissions.