These initial satellites were used primarily for scientific purposes. As NASA perfected the launch and deployment of satellites,the private sector paid attention, keeping their eyes open for a future business opportunity. Their challenge was to figure out what other tasks the satellites could accomplish besides scientific data collection.

The signals continued for 22 days until the transmitter batteries ran out on October 26, 1957. Sputnik 1 burned up on January 4, 1958 as it fell from orbit upon reentering Earth's atmosphere, after traveling about 60 million km (37 million miles) and spending 3 months in orbit.m Sputnik helped to identify the upper atmospheric layer's density, through measuring the satellite's orbital changes. It also provided data on radio-signal distribution in the ionosphere. Pressurized nitrogen, in the satellite's body, provided the first opportunity for meteoroid detection. If a meteoroid penetrated the satellite's outer hull, it would be detected by the temperature data sent back to Earth.

Geosynchronous satellites seem to remain in a fixed orbit over the earth. In reality, the satellite travels at the same orbit speed and pattern as the earth's movement. This allows a satellite-receiving dish to be pointed at a fixed position in the sky,exchanging signals, instead of constantly searching for the satellites position. Navigation satellites were developed primarily to satisfy the need for a navigation system that nuclear submarines could use to update their inertial navigation system.

This led the U.S. navy to establish the Transit program in 1958; the system was declared operational in 1962 after the launch of Transit 5A. The Navigation Satellite for Time and Ranging/Global Positioning Satellite System (Navstar/GPS) consists of 24 satellites approximately 11,000 miles above the surface of the earth in six different orbital planes. The GPS has several advantages over the Transit system: It provides greater accuracy in a shorter time; users can obtain information 24 hours a day; and users are always in view of at least five satellites, which yields highly accurate location information (a direct readout of position accurate to within a few yards) including altitude. In addition, because of technological improvements, the GPS system has user equipment that is smaller and less complex. The former Soviet Union established a Navstar equivalent system known as the Global Orbiting Navigation Satellite System (GLONASS). The Russian-operated GLONASS will use the same number of satellites and orbits similar to those of Navstar when complete. Many of the handheld GPS receivers can also use the GLONASS data if equipped with the proper processing software.

Transit satellites, on the other hand, provided a constant signal by which aircraft and ships could determine their positions with great accuracy. In 1967 civilians were able to enjoy the benefits of Transit technology. However, the Transit system had an inherent limitation. The combination of the small number of Transit satellites and their polar orbits meant there were some areas of the globe that were not continuously covered-as a result, the users had to wait until a satellite was properly positioned before they could obtain navigational information. The limitations of the Transit system spurred the next advance in satellite navigation: the availability of 24-hour worldwide positioning information. The United States has launched several Landsat remote-imaging satellites to survey the earth's resources by means of special television cameras and radiometric scanners.

Russia and other nations have also launched such satellites; the French SPOT satellite provides higher-resolution photographs of the earth. Relay 1 and Telstar 1, both launched in 1962, were the first active communications satellites. However, satellites in the Relay and Telstar program were not in geosynchronous orbits, which is the secret to continuous communications networks.

In principle, three geosynchronous satellites located symmetrically in the plane of the earth's equator can provide complete coverage of the earth's surface. In practice, many more are used in order to increase the system's message-handling capacity. A network of 29 Intelsat satellites in geosynchronous orbit now provides instantaneous communications throughout the world. In addition, numerous communications satellites have been orbited by commercial organizations and individual nations for a variety of telecommunications tasks.

Communications satellites provide a worldwide linkup of radio, telephone, and television. Few people realize the birth of satellite TV began with the space race of the 1950's and 60's. On October 4, 1957, the Russian's putt he first satellite, Sputnik, into orbit. The United States quickly responded with a launch of a satellite on January 1, 1958 . Syncom 3, launched in 1964, was the first stationary earth satellite. It was used to telecast the 1964 Olympic Games in Tokyo to the United States, the first television program to cross the Pacific Ocean. An international consortium of business people banded together to research possible satellite applications.

This consortium quickly developed a satellite system that was essential for business satellite applications and the start of satellite TV -- geosynchronous satellites. It transmitted infrared television pictures of the earth's cloud cover and was able to detect the development of hurricanes and to chart their paths. The Tiros series was followed by the Nimbus series, which carried six cameras for more detailed scanning, and the Itos series, which was able to transmit night photographs.

Other weather satellites include the Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellites (GOES), which send weather data and pictures that cover a section of the United States; China, Japan, India, and the European Space Agency have orbited similar craft. Current weather satellites can transmit visible or infrared photos, focus on a narrow or wide area, and maneuver in space to obtain maximum coverage. Research satellites measure fundamental properties of outer space, e.g., magnetic fields, the flux of cosmic rays and micrometeorites, and properties of celestial objects that are difficult or impossible to observe from the earth. Early research satellites included a series of orbiting observatories designed to study radiation from the sun, light and radio emissions from distant stars, and the earth's atmosphere. Notable research satellites have included the following: Hubble Space Telescope Compton Gamma-Ray Observatory Chandra X-ray Observatory Infrared Space Observatory Solar and Heliospheric Observatory Scientific research were the experiments conducted by the astronauts and cosmonauts aboard the space stations launched by the United States Skylab Salyut and Mir In these stations researchers worked for months at a time on scientific or technical projects.

The International Space Station, currently under construction, will continue this work