Fracture The forearm two bones such as the radius and the ulna are important bones for the proper motion of the elbow and wrist joints, and they also serve as important attachments to muscles of the upper extremity. How do forearm fractures occur? A forearm fracture occurs when there is a fracture of one or both of the forearms' bones. The most common types of fractures are due to a fall onto the hand, or a direct blow to the forearm, which can be seen in altercations, sports injuries, and car accidents. Symptoms : pain, swelling forearm deformity A forearm fracture can be diagnosed through a proper physical examination and x-ray studies. What are the types of forearm fractures? Forearm bones fracture can occur around the elbow (radial head fractures and olecranon fractures) , and those that occur around the wrist (wrist fractures) are considered elsewhere. Mentioned here are the radial shaft fractures, ulnar shaft fractures, and fractures of both forearm bones. Radial Shaft Fracture More commonly, radial shaft fractures are associated with injury to the ulna or injury to one of the joints around the wrist (Galeazzi fracture). Having a radial shaft's isolated fracture is an unusual injury. However, when this happens, it commonly requires surgery unless it has a non-displaced fracture, because if the fracture is displaced, the rotation of the forearm could be limited unless the fracture is realigned. That's why most radial shaft fractures are treated with surgery in order to realign and hold the bones in its normal and proper positions. 2. Both Bones Forearm Fracture This kind of fracture almost always requires surgery in an adult patient. This is because without surgery, the forearm will become unstable and this type has no ability to cast in a proper orientation. SURGERY TREATMENT Most commonly, both bones forearm fractures are treated by placing a metal plate and screws on both the radius and ulna bones wherein each must be approached through a separate incision, therefore having two incisions on your forearm. COMPLICATIONS Here are the most common complications incorporated with this kind of fractures: Decreased Motion There can be a limited motion in the elbow and wrist joints, yet the limitation is most commonly noticeable as a limitation in the rotation of the forearm like for example, turning a door handle. Non-Healing Fracture The forearm bones can have inadequate healing leading to persistent pain, especially if the bone is lost because of the type of fracture (i.e. many small pieces) or open fractures. If this is the case, a repeat surgery for bone grafting may be necessary. Infection The occurrence of infection after any surgical procedure is always possible. When this happens, the removal of metal plate and screws may be required in order to treat the infection. Wrist Fracture The most commonly broken bone condition in patients under 65 years old is the Wrist fractures. When doctors describe a wrist fracture, they are usually referring to a radius' fracture, one of the two forearm bones. Generally, a wrist fracture means that the end of the forearm has been broken. This is to clear the other types of broken bones occurring near the twist. SYMPTOMS Here are the common symptoms of a wrist fracture: Swelling Wrist pain Wrist Deformity TREATMENT Most often, cast is used to treat broken wrist, because the wrist is one area in your body that is very amenable to cast treatment. If the bones are not in their proper position, there's a light sedation or local anesthesia that may be used in resetting the fracture, which is called 'reducing' a wrist fracture. By performing specific maneuvers, your doctor may be able to realign your broken wrist. Surgery is most often the treatment given to a wrist fracture. We have here some of the important considerations to determine whether or not a surgery is needed for a broken wrist: Age and physical condition Much effort is exerted to restore the wrist to normal, if a patient is young and active, which may help preventing problems in the years to come. However, if the patient doesn't require heavy motions using the wrist, or if the patient is on the old age already, it may not be necessary to have a perfect restoration of the broken bones. Fracture Location If the fracture is involving the wrist joint's cartilage, then a surgery may be more likely to consider. The bone can be remolded over time, yet the wrist joint's cartilage surface cannot. And if the cartilage surfaces are not lined up sufficiently with a reduction (resetting) maneuver, then surgery may be considered. Quality of the Bones Surgery is traumatic to the bone, and sometimes the best thing to do is to minimize further insult to the bone and treat using a cast.If the bone is severely osteoporotic, then surgery may be less beneficial. If plates and screws are used to fix a fracture, the bone quality must be adequate to secure the screws. Adequacy of non-surgical management Usually, if there's a displaced fracture, the patient will have an attempted reduction, or broken bone repositioning, because sometimes it is difficult to have a repositioning without surgery. However, there are times when the positioning is satisfactory, yet the fracture may not hold by the casting in that position. Usually, a surgery can be performed any time in the first two weeks after the fracture in order to restore the proper positioning of the bones. Fracture Displacement If bones are misaligned severely, then surgery may be required to properly position the fragments. Usually, this is attempted even without undergoing a surgery, yet it is possible for muscle and tendon to become entrapped and block the resetting. Furthermore, some fractures may be unstable in position even if casted well; thus, a surgery may require to adequately place the bones in position. As mentioned, usually, a surgery is not needed for a wrist fracture, yet in some situations it may be considered. There are several treatment options if surgery is to be performed: There are fractures that are to be secured with pins in order to hold the fragments in place. The usage of an external fixator. It is a device that uses pins through the skin and outside the skin to pull the fragments into position. Plates and screws may be considered to position the fracture properly. 