The first time you come face to face with a sewing machine you will know nothing. But in order to get going, all you really need is detailed instructions (or better yet, a friend) that shows you how to thread the machine, and and off you can go. Many people pretty much teach themselves, and seldom use a pattern. Many sewers simply make their own patterns when necessary. The point of telling you this, is to let you know that it is completely okay to just simply wing it, even if you are new to sewing. Have fun with it! Sewing does not always need to be an exact science. And it doesn't need to be as complicated as it can sometimes seem. Just remember and embrace the fact that you will make mistakes. The worst that can happen is that you might waste a little thread. The fabric is usually salvageable; just pull the thread out and start over. Whatever you do, you will learn something new and, if you keep trying, you will make some cool stuff. And when you do finish your first sewing project, it will feel great. With the exception of sewing on buttons, hand sewing is done with a single thread. Unwind your thread no longer than the length of your arm and cut it off at an angle. If you break or bite it off you will create an uneven end that will be more difficult to thread and more prone to unwinding. It is also best not to wet the end, as some threads swell and become more difficult to thread the needle, and l engths of thread longer than your arm tend to tangle and fray as you work. Thread one end through your needle (using a needle-threader if you prefer), and pull through about two-thirds of the length. Tie a small knot in the long end, then lay this piece alongside the other. When sewing very fine fabrics, skip the knot, as it may leave a noticeable lump in your material. Roll the needle in your fingers, which will help keep the needle from slipping and pulling off the end. Note that when hand sewing you should keep your stitches very close together; twelve or more stitches to the inch is preferable. On some garments, such as reproduction historical clothing with gathers, the stitches may even be as close as one stitch for every two threads in the material. Hand stitching is not an excuse for sloppy workmanship. Run the needle from the back side of your material at a point one stitch length from where you wish the seam to start, pulling it gently tight to the knot. Make a backstitch, that is, sew backwards to the start of your seam and begin sewing. The knot will keep the thread from pulling through as you start, and your next stitches will cover the end and help bind it into place. If you don't use the knot, you may wish to make a couple of tiny backstitches, then start. Assuming you are right handed, hand sewing is done from right to left, unless otherwise noted. This stitch is a variation of overcast stitch, and is used to finish edges on lightweight materials, like ruffles, napkins, rollers, etc. To use, first roll the edge of the material with your left hand toward you, then spiral the thread around, not through, the roll, entering the fabric from the top side. An alternative method is to make a tiny backstitch, catching a single thread in the fabric and leaving a small loop in the thread. Make another backstitch, run your needle through the loop in the thread and pull tight. For greater strength, you can do this two or three times more. It is easy to be overwhelmed with all of the options and features hyped by marketers that make, they claim, their sewing machines better than the rest. But before you buy, there are some important points to consider. Your skill level - If you are a beginner, you will probably not take full advantage of all the advanced features of the big, expensive machines. A good rule of thumb is that if you can't see an immediate use for a function, you probably don't need it yet. Anyone who is already an experienced seamstress will likely already know how these features can benefit their sewing. Price - Sewing machines vary dramatically in price. Very basic machines can be found for around $100, and the price just keeps going up depending on brand and what bells and whistles they include. However, you d o not need to spend a lot of money on your first sewing machine. All you need is a simple machine to get started with. And you do have some options ranging from relatively cheap to free. Buy a beginner sewing machine . These are the machines in the $100 price range, and in places like Walmart, you may even be able to find cheaper machines. They usually have only the most commonly used features, such as a button hole sewing attachment and an automatic threader , and a limited number of stitches . However, a great benefit you might find is that beginner sewing machines are more likely to come with a DVD that teaches you everything you would need to know to begin basic sewing projects. Buy a used or refurbished machine . Very few of the larger chains stores are likely to stock refurbished machines, but many of the smaller, independently run sewing stores will carry both used and refurbished machines. These are often perfect for basic sewing projects and do not cost much. Or you might find the perfect used sewing machine in the arts and crafts category of Craigslist, or other online classifieds site. Get a sewing machine for free . If you are very lucky or very patient you can get even a sewing machine for free. Check out the "free stuff" section of Craigslist daily, or post an ad in the "wanted" section that you are looking for a sewing machine. Trading communities like freecycle.org are a nother great way to find sewing machines for free. You can post an ad when you have stuff to get rid of and post an ad detailing what you are looking for. These ads come straight to your email. Try various machines before you buy - Try not to skip this step if you can possibly help it. While it is not impossible to figure out a machine you have never seen before, but it is much more fun to sew on something that has a least a hint of familiarity. Sewing lessons - These may be offered free of charge if you buy your sewing machine through a local retailer, or you may be able to get in touch with a local sewing circle, which comes with the added bonus of finding new friends and mentors to guide and inspire you in your new hobby. However you find them, sewing lessons are a great tool for learning the ins and outs of your new machine. The guarantee or return policy - Before buying your sewing machine online or through a catalog, be sure there is a guarantee or return policy just in case it is damaged in shipping or if it is not all that was promised. Save all the receipts and paperwork that come with your machine, you may need them later. It is overwhelming to consider buying just one sewing machine out of the thousands of sewing machines on the market today, but if you take the time to really evaluate what you want and need in a sewing machine, you can n arrowing your search for a sewing machine and save yourself a lot of frustration. However, despite the variety of makes and models, all sewing machines work in much the same way. While sewing by hand works by moving a single strand of thread in and out of the fabric, sewing machines intertwine two strands of thread to form stitches. It is t his use of two threads instead of one which allows sewing machines to work as quickly as they do. The Parts of a Sewing Machine Sewing machines consist of a few basic systems that work together. These are: The Spool Thread System This is the system which draws the thread from the spool at the top of the sewing machine to the needle at the bottom. The thread runs from the top spool, which sits on the spool pin, to the needle. The spool pin : This is a pole somewhere on the top of the machine where the top spool of thread sits. On many machines this pin stands upright, but on some machines it lies horizontally. Thread guides : The thread from the top spool is threaded through these loops or hooks on its route to the needle. The guides keep the spool thread running smoothly. Thread take-up : This metal lever, through which the spool thread is threaded, pumps up and down during the sewing process, which pulls the thread from the spool and feeds it through the needle. The needle : The eye of the needle in a sewing machine is closest to the point. The top spool of thread is threaded through this eye, and the needle cycles up and down rapidly as you sew, plunging through the fabric with each downward motion. The Bobbin Mechanism and Bobbin Thread The bobbin mechanism houses the second thread used by a sewing machine at the bottom of the machine. This thread, also called the bobbin thread, is wound around a bottom spool located inside the base of the sewing machine, beneath the needle . When the sewing machine is in operation and the needle plunges through the fabric, the bobbin mechanism intertwines the bottom thread with the spool thread to form stitches. Bobbin case : The bobbin is inserted into a hollow metal case, called the bobbin case, and the thread is pulled through a slot in the side of the case. The case is then inserted into the compartment in the base of the sewing machine according to the instructions provided with your sewing machine. The Fabric-Feeding Assembly The fabric-feeding assembly allows you to guide your fabric smoothly under the needle. Presser foot : The two metal strips that hold the fabric flat during sewing are called the presser foot. Sewing machines are usually sold with a general-purpose foot in place. When working on specific tasks, such as working on a zipper or buttonhole, this all-purpose presser foot can be replaced with one specifically designed for the task at hand . Presser foot lifter : This lever allows you to raise or lower the presser foot. You raise the presser foot to release you fabric, but don't forget to lower it before you start sewing! Feed dogs : These grooved tracks under the needle grip the fabric and feed it away from you as you sew. Throat plate : This metal plate beneath the presser foot and needle mechanism often has gu ides etched into it to help you avoid sewing seams too close to the edge of the fabric . The needle passes through the throat plate to work with the bobbin. The Controls While other parts of the sewing machine may be more complex in their workings, they tend to operate outside of your sight. The controls of your sewing machine is, therefore, the most complex part you will be dealing with. These controls allow you to modify how your sewing machine sews and works. Stitch selection panel : One of the benefits of sewing machines is that they can sew many different stitches, such as straight, zigzag, and more decorative designs. Most machines display their stitch patterns on the front plate of the sewing machine, and you can select the stitch you want by turning a little dial next to or beneath the plate. Sewing patterns usually specify which stitch or stitches to use, but in general you will probably only use one or two of the stitches in day-to-day work. Balance wheel : This is a dial, usually on the back end of a sewing machine, which you can turn to work the needle up and down manually, so that you can take stitches at a slow, controlled pace. Stitch length regulator : This regulator controls the length of the stitches. The s titch length you will need depends on both the setting you choose and the thickness of the fabric; the thicker the fabric, the more slowly it will move through the machine and the smaller the stitch length will be. The stitch length also affects the thread's tension against the fabric. On most machines the standard setting for stitch length is 2.5 on the regulator, which is usually acceptable for simple sewing projects. Stitch width regulator : For straight stitches, this regulator either has no effect or must be set to 0. For any stitch that isn't straight , such as a zigzag stitch , this regulator sets the width of the stitch. Reverse lever : This lever changes the direction that the feed dogs push the fabric, so that it comes towards you, rather than away from you, allowing you to work backward over previous stitches. Foot pedal : This pedal starts and stops the machine. Operating it with your feet allows you to keeping your hands free to thread the fabric through the machine at an even pace. Sewing Machine Maintenance A few simple cleaning and maintenance habit will help your sewing machine to operate reliably and last longer. Keep covered when not in use : If dust, pet hairs, or dirt gets into the mechanisms or circuits of your machine it will impair the machine's ability to function. Most sewing machines come with a case that will keep the worst of the dirt away, and careful storage will keep the rest at bay. Clean after use : After every project, clean your machine using either a small brush (which may be included with the machine) or a small piece of cotton fabric. You want to be sure you have removed all lint, clumps of fibers, or loose threads from the machine's moving parts. Change the needle after every four hours of sewing : A dull or slightly bowed needle will impair the operation of your machine. Wear a thimble on the second finger of your sewing hand to push the needle through heavy fabrics and tight spots, and save yourself a lot of trouble and pain. As you sew and use the long piece of the thread, unroll the needle in your fingers, slide it up the thread and roll it again. 