You can also purchase BART Tickets online through CDSNet, Inc., that offers an easy and secure way of buying BART tickets online by using your credit card. Refund, Exchange or Donate Tickets You may claim ticket refund, consolidate a number of BART tickets with minimal values or you may donate the unused portion of your BART ticket to local nonprofit.

Safety and security of the passengers is primary focus at BART. The BART management works hard everyday to ensure that each and every passenger has a trouble free ride. The security measures are constantly being improved and upgraded while still delivering efficient services to the customers. It may not be possible to check every and every person who enters the BART system but it surely does not mean that steps are not being taken for security of the passengers. Since 9/11, all the front-line employees at BART have received extensive training and they know how to react in case of any emergency. At the same time any kind of new information is constantly shared with them.

Patrols inside stations and also on trains have been increased by the BART police. Other intrusion prevention steps like new alarms and increased video surveillance have also been taken to ensure safety.

Here's a list of some of the important features which help to make it easy for seniors as well as persons with certain disabilities to use BART comfortably: 1. For persons who are blind or visually impaired, textured rubber tiles have been all along the length of train platforms warn them that they are near the platform edge. The visually impaired persons can easily detect these tiles with foot or a cane.

Service animals are allowed in BART stations and also on trains. The next station is announced by the train operatos and at the same time they give instructions for transfers. 2. For persons who are hearing-impaired or deaf, message signs on platform announce the destination station of every arriving train. Every BART station has at least one TDD or Telecommunications Device for the Deaf. For persons who have have limited mobility or for persons who use a wheelchair, each and every BART is equipped with accessible elevator service that reaches all levels. There is a provision of level boarding from platform to all BART trains. Space has been provided in all the BART cars to accommodate wheelchair users.

Every BART car has been provided with designated priority seating near doorsfor seniors as well as persons with disabilities. Wheel chair users must pay attention to the small gap between the edge of the platform edge and the train. The width of this gap may vary, so the wheel chair users should not hesitate to move on to another car in case the gap in front of a particular door is quite big. The Operator of the train makes it a point to wait for a person with a wheelchair to enter. It is advisable for for passengers with wheelchairs to enter or exit the train in such a manner that the rear wheels enter first at a slight angle with respect to the train. The wheelchair's brakes should be locked. In case of some BART cars, the space on the right side of the door is reserved for those passengers who are in wheelchairs. Seniors who are aged 65 or more, disabled persons with RTC or Regional Transit Connection Discount Card, and the people with valid identification are eligible to get discount tickets.

Seniors are entitled to a 62.5% discount with Green tickets. Medicare cardholders or disabled persons are entitled to a 62.5% discount with red tickets. Apart from this, a PCA or personal care attendant who accompanies disabled passenger on BART is also eligible for discount fare in case the use of a personal care attendant is mentioned on the RTC Discount Card. It must be noted that the people who enter or exit a station by using a discount ticket can be asked for verification of their eligibility by showing a valid identification which includes photo ID with proof of age in case of senior citizens using a green ticket. Valid identification for people using red ticket includes RTC Discount Card, Medicare card along with photo ID, license plate from California DMV or disabled person placard along with photo ID or a valid transit discount card obtained from from some other California transit agency along with photo ID. Every BART station has accessible elevators.

In case are not able to enter or exit an elevator at a particular BART station due to the fact that the elevator is not working, then you may contact the Station Agent to find out the other transit alternatives available. In order to check the status of elevators at any station, one can call either (510) 834-LIFT or (888) 2-ELEVAT. It is not advisable to use elevators in case of fire. In case a person needs to communicate with the Station Agent while he is inside the elevator, he or she can use the emergency telephone. In case the call is not answered by the Station Agent within 90 seconds, then the call is directed to BART Central Dispatch. In case the emergency telephone has been picked up for at least two minutes but at the same time there is no voice communication, then BART treats the call as a call for assistance. Hence help is available to the elevator passengers even in case they are unable to speak.

Escalators have been provided at all BART stations and these escalators generally operate in the direction of flow of passenger, which varies according to the time of the day and also according to the location. Where ever possible, the escalator service has also been provided in both the directions. Passengers at the platform are advised to stand behind the yellow strip made from textured rubber tiles. The strip runs along the entire length of all the BART platforms. These textured tiles have been used for the benefit of the visually impaired persons as these can be detected with the help of a cane or foot.

Approximate location of the train doors has been marked with the help of black rubber tiles. For boarding a train, the passengers should not approach the train until an unless it stops completely. It must be kept in mind that a train mat adjust its position before the doors open. Seats located near the doors have been designated as priority seats for seniors and disabled persons. Passengers are advised to hold on to the handrails to steady themselves while the train is moving.