The girl who grew up to be America's first self-made female millionaire was born Sarah Breedlove, in 1868, in Delta, Louisiana. The family to which she was born was desperately poor, but she was the first member of it to be born free - her parents had been slaves. She turned to her married older sister, and it was decided that Sarah would move into the home of her sister and brother-in-law. Before long, however, it became clear that this home was no safe haven: her brother-in-law was violent and abusive, and Sarah could not wait to get out. At the age of fourteen, she married a man named Moses McWilliams. Little is known about this marriage; it may or may not have been a happy one. It was blessed with a daughter, who was born four years after the couple married when Sarah was eighteen. A mere two years later, however, Moses McWilliams died, leaving Sarah a twenty-year-old widow with a two-year-old child to support. And unlike today, when only certain items such as dress shirts are usually ironed, nearly every piece of clothing that Sarah would have washed would have also had to be ironed. Anything washed using the method described above, and later dried on a clothesline, would have emerged from the process feeling rough and stiff and with a rumpled, wrinkled appearance that could only be smoothed with a thorough ironing. Yet despite all its rigors, taking in laundry remained an unskilled job that could be performed by anyone willing to undergo the exigencies of the physical work that laundry required. This meant that even though the work was difficult and highly in demand, it was also extremely poorly paid. For every load of laundry that a family wanted to send out, there were several poor, uneducated, unskilled, and desperately poor women - usually women of color - who were willing to wash it. During these seventeen years, Sarah saw scores of African-American women who were stuck in jobs like hers - and thus stuck in poverty - because there were few other opportunities open to African-American women (and men). It made a strong impression on her. She was to remember later in her life, when she was creating her own business, how many intelligent, hard-working African-Americans she had seen who had no outlet for these fine qualities, which were being wasted on backbreaking, low-paid menial work. How much they could accomplish, she thought, if other paths were open to them! This insight into the economic constraints on African-American communities would later form the backbone of not only her philanthropic activities but even, to a great extent, of her business model. But all that was to come later. It was when she was in her late thirties - most accounts state her age at the time as thirty-seven - that Sarah had the experience that soon became a crucial part of her personal mythology, the linchpin of her transformation from hapless domestic servant to successful entrepreneur. Often in such stories - both true and fictional - there is a "come-to-Jesus moment" - an event that startles one awake and into action. For Sarah, it was that she began to lose her hair. and clumps in her comb and hairbrush as well. Soon, every morning showed her fresh tufts of hair, and the tufts were getting larger. Sarah's hair was falling out at an increasing rate - so much so that she began to fear that she would go entirely bald. Though the immediate causes of her thinning and disappearing hair were not evident, it was not difficult to identify the top suspects. Many women in that time, particularly African-American women, suffered from similar symptoms. The place this event holds in Sarah's timeline is important as well. It has already been described how she was widowed at age twenty with a two-year-old child to support. In 1894, at the age of twenty-six, Sarah remarried a man named John Davis. Davis receives little attention in most brief biographical sketches of Madame C.J. Walker; little is apparently known about him, why Sarah married him, what their marriage was like. For the purposes of examining Sarah's biographical timeline, however, the most important thing about John Davis and his marriage to Sarah is that it ended: the two divorced in 1903, when Sarah was thirty-five. At the age of thirty-seven, therefore, Sarah found herself alone with two marriages behind her and plagued by an affliction that threatened to alter her entire appearance. It is not known whether Sarah or sought the divorce, or whether Sarah had any desire or intentions at that time of marrying again. But it can easily be surmised that a woman past her first youth and recently divorced would feel a particular pain at losing a major feature of her feminine self, and might feel particularly inspired to do something about it. It was that impulse - the impulse to "do something about it" - that launched her into the series of events that would change her life, and the lives of many others, forever. What was remarkable about it was not only the degree of change, but also the speed at which it took place. With her husband's help, Sarah opened the business that was to make her rich and famous: Madame C.J. Walker's Manufacturing Company, which created hair products and cosmetics designed specifically to meet the needs of African-American women. She had very little starting capital - by some accounts, less than two dollars - but she had a demonstrated market need, a desirable product, and a nearly inexhaustible drive to make her business succeed. For the first year and a half after she opened the business, Walker maintained a near-constant pace on the road, tirelessly promoting her products and her company. And because she herself had designed and provided the training her agents needed to do their jobs well, Walker was able to construct a licensure model to organize and manage her agents. Only salespeople who had undergone her specialized training system and passed the required exams were permitted to sell Walker's products - conferring a special status upon the agents as well as allowing Walker to exercise control over how her products were represented and promoted. By 1917, Walker had the largest business in the United States that was owned by a black person, male or female. She is also considered to have been the first American woman, of any race, to become a millionaire through the fruits of her own labor (as opposed to achieving the status via inheritance or through investments). For Walker, however, her wealth was never considered to be an end in itself. The greatest satisfaction she took in her financial success was in the ability it gave her to create much-needed (and uniquely well-paying and meaningful) economic opportunities for African-American women. She was extremely proud to know that thousands of women who might otherwise have been working as sharecroppers or domestic servants were instead doing work that not only paid them well, but allowed them to feel independent and autonomous. The economic opportunities that her company created for its agents, however, were only part of what made Walker's wealth meaningful to her. She took great satisfaction in engaging in extensive philanthropic activity in the African-American community, and to this day she is largely remembered for her many lasting contributions to cultural, political, and educational resources for African-Americans. The mansion, and the gatherings that Walker held there, are significant beyond the level of a posh party in a fancy house. When Walker welcomed the luminaries and the emerging creative lights of the African-American community to Villa Lewaro, she was displaying the arrival of an African-American woman at a signpost of success and elite status in the white world - and an arrival, moreover, that was achieved solely by Walker's application of her inspiration, dedication, and strenuous work ethic. With each guest she welcomed, Walker was saying, in essence, "This is no white bastion, but the proper place of anyone, black or white, who creates her own success through her own hard work." This implicit statement links Walker's social significance with her political significance. Though she presented herself as an example of the rewards to be reaped from hard work and dedication, she saw clearly that the playing field was far from level, and that opportunity was far less accessible to African-Americans than to whites - opportunity not only for economic advancement but also for basic just treatment and protection by the law. When, in 1919, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) launched its anti-lynching campaign, Walker's pledge of five thousand dollars was, of all the monetary gifts the Association had ever received, the greatest in value. Discriminated against and marginalized by society in general due to her race, she was further discriminated against within her race because she was a woman - sometimes in the very venues that she had helped to create with her financial support. For example, Walker was a strong supporter of Booker T. Washington, and gave significant financial support to initiatives that he led. Her money helped make it possible for Washington to offer scholarships to African-American students through the Tuskegee Institute, and also for him to launch the National Negro Business League in 1900. It is impossible to know, of course, whether Walker truly believed this, disbelieved it but didn't mind pretending in order to sell her product, or simply didn't consider too closely the image she was offering African-American women - like many entrepreneurs, she may have considered her product only in the light of whether it would meet an identified need in the marketplace. Regardless, it is clear that Walker's products reflected the racism of the time; they may also have reinforced and supported that bigoted view of female beauty. The other perspective question concerns Walker's legacy as a role model for African Americans. As an individual motto, hard work and determination are excellent moral guides and keywords for success. As a path to suggest to the whole African-American community, however, it is redolent of a "model minority" idea in which bigotry and prejudice masquerade as admiration and respect for the accomplishments and attitude of one individual member of a marginalized group. If you work hard, apply yourself, work within the system, play by the rules, you will be rewarded with success, this notion goes. And moral courage, fortitude, and perseverance are available to anyone who chooses to display them, regardless of what obstacles may have been placed in their paths; therefore anyone who isn't making that choice is not being held back by inequalities of opportunity or an uneven playing field, but is simply choosing not to behave in ways that would promote his success. This attitude feeds into the idea that, as long as the most talented and energetic people are not actually forbidden from working and innovating, we don't have an inequality problem - because any member of a minority group who may be dissatisfied with their lot need only make the decision to apply themselves, and they'll succeed. Asking these questions does not in any way lessen Walker's accomplishments. In fact, we might be able to appreciate her more if we let her be more human; if we recognized that accomplishments like these are rarely achieved simply through hard work - that difficult choices have to be made along the way. One could rationalize that if Walker did, to some extent, appropriate the work of other black women, she did so becauseit allowed her to create three thousand jobs for African-Americans and to create vast wealththat she would then give back to the black community. She also leveraged a product that without her might not have been leveraged, but would only have retained its own solitary value. Whether one ends up concluding that Walker was justified or not, it brings us closer to the truth to at least have the discussion than to simply call her a hard-working go-getter and be done with it. There is almost certainly far more to Madame C.J. Walker - and to Sarah Breedlove - than that.