You can find bobcats anywhere from Canada to Mexico.They are generalists when it comes to both habitat and prey, living anywhere and eating what is available. Bobcats mostly eat rats and squirrels, birds, lizards, rabbits and other small prey, and occasionally a fawn or fox. Bobcats survive well in forest, marshland, desert and grassland and are now adapting to life in suburbia in some parts of America. Bobcats are distinctive in that they can cope with a high level of disturbance. They can survive in areas where other cats simply cannot. Other cat species have declined in numbers as human populations have grown and encroached on feline territories, however bobcats simple adapt and thrive! There is mixed opinion about this with residents of areas where bobcats are moving into the suburban areas. Some see it as interesting and rewarding to have bobcats in the neighbourhood, however others worry they are dangerous. A caged bobcat can look pretty dangerous, but in reality they are fairly small and generally harmless. Bobcat attacks on humans is very rare, usually on occurring if the animal has rabies, or has been cornered and it is defending itself, however if a pet goes missing, bobcats are often blamed. However this is rarely proven. Feral dogs also kill pets. Bobcats usually hunt during dawn or dusk, however they are starting to become used to humans and are venturing out during the day. Studies on the stomach contents of dead bobcats in urban areas shows mainly a diet of city rats, which is great for the city! Studies of bobcat scat shows the fur of the animals eaten. This can then be identified. Out of fifty pieces of fur, there were no domestic pets, just squirrel, rabbit and rat fur. Scientists are interested in the adaptability of bobcats and studies are being conducted into the size of the urban bobcat population, what they are eating , how often they are getting hit by cars, and what their genetic variation is within their population compared to other bobcats in Texas. Bobcat is also the name of a famous North Dakota company dedicated to top quality workmanship. For more than five decades, since 1947 the company have been making a variety of products that have changed over the years as the needs of the customers have changed, and technology has advanced. Bobcat products these days include compact track loaders, all-wheel steer loaders, utility work machines, utility vehicles, skid-steer loaders, compact excavators and job specific attachments for these vehicles. The business has remained competitive by keeping up with the times, with the addition of modern manufacturing techniques such as robotics and computer numeric control. With tight quality and cost control processes in place, the business remains productive and profitable even in tough economic times. In the 80's robots were introduced to the factories to to handle such jobs as welding and painting. There are now nearly 1000 Bobcat dealers in 90 countries. Bobcat started out as The Melroe Manufacturing Company which was founded in 1947 by Edward Gideon Melroe in Gwinner, North Dakota. Melroe set up the plant as he noticed an increasing demand for a grain harvesting attachment which he had invented and developed on his own farm and wanted to meet this demand. He named this attachment for combine harvesters the Melroe Pickup. It was very efficient, leaving minimum waste. He then invented a spring-tooth harrow and the business proceeded to manufacture and sell these two implements well into the 1950s. In 1955 Edward Melroe died and his four sons, along with a son-in-law took over the business. In 1958 the Melroe business took an unexpected new direction when they met with Cyril and Louis Keller from Minnesota. These brothers owned a machinist-blacksmith shop where they repaired machinery for the local farmers.A couple of years before a turkey farmer named Eddie Velo had approached the Kellers to consult them about an issue, and ask advise about a possible solution. He owned a loader, but couldn't move it around the upright poles in his barn. The Kellers solution was to build a self-propelled loader that was lightweight enough to be lifted up to the second floor of the barn and maneuverable enough to clean around the poles. For ideas and materials thy hunted round junkyards and eventually made their machine from a three-wheeled loader with two front drive wheels and a caster wheel at the back. The machine had a six horse power engine with a rope starter and had independent right and left control levers. The fork tines of the front scoop needed to be made from very hard steel, which they finally found in the form of bars taken from the windows of the local jail! The Kellers' uncle happened to work as a Melroe farm equipment dealer at Elbow Lake in Minnesota and in 1958 he showed the loader to Lester Melroe, one of the Melroe sons who had taken over the business. The Melroe brothers were impressed with the machine and saw a lot of potential for it. They bought the rights to it and hired the Keller brothers to help get the loader into production. The original six horse power engine was increased to a more powerful nine horse power engine and the name was changed to the three-wheeled Melroe Self-Propelled Loader. The original model M-60 loader could turn 360 degrees in its own length but there was room for improvement and in 1959 they brought out the M-200 with a 12.9 HP gasoline engine. It was still on three wheels though and this brought with it some issues. It was quite unstable, and it lacked power and traction. A separate set of drive wheels had to be added to the back so the loader could pull itself through mud. To address these issues, in 1960 the model M-400 was created with four-wheel-drive. which, with four-wheel-drive, the first skid-steer loader. This model didn't sell particularly well however the design would come to revolutionize compact material-handling technology the world over. In 1962 the M-440 was released, an improved version of M-400. This same year a Melroe associate suggested that the loader be called a Bobcat after the prairie animal.