In 1914, President Woodrow Wilson, made the official announcement proclaiming Mother's Day a national observance that was to be held each year on the 2nd Sunday of May. However, commercial interests took to the holiday with such enthusiasm, that it was only nine years after the first official Mother's Day in the U.S.A. that Anna Jarvis herself took a stance against the rampant commercialization. For the rest of her life, she became a major opponent of what the holiday had become. In 1948, when she was arrested for disturbing the peace while protesting against the commercialization, she finally confessed that she regretted having started it. Given that other Protestant holidays from the same time, such as Children's Day and Temperance Sunday, disappeared almost without a trace, it is quite possible that Mother's Day would not have survived long if the florist, greeting card and gift industries has not promoted and supported it to the extent in which they did. Different countries of the world celebrate their Mother's Day at different times throughout the year.

By far the most popular day to celebrate Mother's Day is the second Sunday in May. It is not just the U.S.A that celebrates Mother's Day on this day, but such varied countries as Denmark, Finland, Italy, Turkey, Australia, and Belgium, as well as Anguilla, Fiji, Ethiopia, and more than 50 other countries also celebrate Mother's Day on the second Sunday in May.

Mother's Day Traditions The giving of flowers along with cards and hand-made crafts is considered by most to be one of the core traditions of Mother's Day. Many also consider it to be a part of the commercialization pushed on us by florists, but flowers have always been a part of Mother's Day; from the Mothering Sunday gifts of flowers to Anne Jarvis' gift of white carnations to be worn by children and mothers at the first Mother's Day service at Andrew's Methodist Church in 1908. The Mothering Sunday traditions of bringing "Mothering Cakes" when one returned home for the day, and eating "Frumenty" at the family dinner have, however, not survived. The Mothering Cake had an outer crust of flour and was first boiled, glazed with egg whites, and then baked. Its crust was fluted and dusted with saffron, and then frosted with a criss-cross pattern. This cake was also known as Simnel cake, but the modern Simnel cakes, eaten at Easter, are light fruit cakes with a layer of almond past in the middle, and another layer on top. Frumenty was primary boiled, craked wheat; the rest of the ingredients could vary widely, producing both sweet and savory dishes.

Some recipes called for the addition of milk, or eggs, or broth. Almonds, currants, sugar, saffron, orange, flower water and a wide variety of spices could be added to sweet variants, while venison, mutton, or even porpoise, (which was considered to be a fish and therefore appropriate for Lent) produced savory versions. Perhaps the most cherished Mother's Day tradition is to be presented with gifts your children have made themselves, with little or no help from others. Such hand-made gifts may be displayed prominently in display shelves, long after the flower have gone to dust, often to the embarrassment of now grown-up children. Less traditional Mother's Day traditions While not truly Mother's Day traditions, there are many actions and events held annually for which the organizers chose to set their event on Mother's Day.

Statistics from the United States In the United States, there are about 82.5 million mothers. About 96% of American consumers take part in some way in Mother's Day. Mother's Day is widely reported as the peak day of the year for long distance telephone calls. There are more than 23,000 florists in the United States with a total of more than 125,000 employees. Colombia is the leading foreign supplier of cut flowers and fresh flower buds to the US. California produces two-thirds of domestic production of cut flowers. Mother's Day is the busiest day of the year for many restaurants.

Retailers report that Mother's Day is the second highest gift-giving holiday in the United States (Christmas is the highest). Most popular month for having babies in the US is August, and most popular weekday is Tuesday. About twice as many young women were child free in the year 2000 as in the 1950s. In the US, 82% of women ages 40-44 are mothers. This compares to 90% in 1976.

In Utah and Alaska, women on the average will have three children before the end of their childbearing years. Overall, the average in the United States is two. In 2002, the 55% of American women with infant children were in the workforce, compared to 31% in 1976, and down from 59% in 1998. In 2002, there were 5.4 million stay-at-home mothers in the US.

Mom, I loved you yesterday, I love you tomorrow and everyday. You were there for me my first day of school, to hold my hand and give me courage to go. You listened to me when I needed to talk, you talked to me when I needed to listen. You let me grow and learn from my own mistakes. You never left my side when I was feeling down, I knew you would be there to pick me up. I wish there was a way I could repay all the things you have done for me, but there's nothing great enough to repay the greatest mother of all. In tears we saw you sinking, And watched you pass away.

Our hearts were almost broken, We wanted you to stay. But when we saw you sleeping, So peaceful, free from pain, How could we wish you back with us, To suffer that again. It broke our hearts to lose you, But you did not go alone, For part of us went with you, The day God took you home.

If Roses grow in Heaven, Lord please pick a bunch for me, Place them in my Mother's arms and tell her they're from me. Tell her I love her and miss her, and when she turns to smile, place a kiss upon her cheek and hold her for awhile. Because remembering her is easy, I do it every day, but there's an ache within my heart that will never go away.

Don't think of her as gone away Her journey's just begun Life holds so many facets This earth is only one Just think of her as resting From the sorrows and the tears In a place of warmth and comfort Where there are no days and years Think how she must be wishing That we could know, today Now nothing but our sadness Can really pass away And think of her as living In the hearts of those she touched For nothing loved is ever lost And she is loved so very much.

Mothers of the Animal Kingdom Mothers of the animal kingdom may not always be nourishing and caring of their offspring, but they are always a special part of any living being's life. Many animal mothers of various species do something special for their young ones. It was Aristotle who first observed in 340 B.C. that dolphins gave birth to live young that were attached to their mothers through an umbilical cord. A whale feeds its baby for six months for the baby baleen whale depends on its mother's milk diet for at least six months. The embryos of the sharks fight each other while they are in their mother's womb. And the survivor baby shark that wins is born.

A baby Harp seal doubles its weight in only five days after it is born. This is all because of the rich amount of protein in its mother's milk. On the other hand it takes a horse almost sixty days to double its birth weight. A female kangaroo that has become a recent mother is capable of holding a reserve embryo inside of her after her first baby has crawled into her pouch. For this mother this embryo is just like an "emergency back-up" baby, in case the first one dies prematurely. A mother giraffe is unique as she often gives birth to a child while standing. So the newborn first of all experiences a nearly 1.8-meter or 6-foot drop outside its mother's womb. The mother chimpanzees usually develop lifelong relationships with their offspring, same as the human beings.

The bond between mother and child orangutans is so strong that the orangutan infants cling almost continually to their mothers until they are 1½ years old. The mother cats give birth to blind and deaf kittens. And it is the vibration of their mother's purring that acts as a physical signal for the kittens. Mother prairie dogs usually nurse their young while underground in the safety of the burrow. The mother slaps the child in case it tries to suckle above ground.

A mother rabbit could abandon, ignore or even eat her young ones if she is frightened or threatened. Mother Mexican free-tailed bats find and nurse their own young, even in huge colonies. In these colonies many millions of babies cluster at up to 500 bats per square foot. The mother marsupial frog lays the eggs in a brood pouch on its back. And the young keeps hatching out in a zipper-like fashion from the pouch. When the baby opossum is born, it is so small that an entire litter can fit in a tablespoon.

It lives inside its mother's pouch for nearly three months and then climbs out and rides on her back. A female oyster is capable of producing over 100 million young ones over her lifetime. The name of Snoopy's mother, which is from the Peanuts cartoon strip, is Missy.