(Ralph) Owen Brewster thus grew up in idyllic circumstances in an America not yet sullied by two World Wars. One imagines him living an idyllic life among the lakes and forests - perhaps a Huckleberry Finn with freckles, a shock of sandy hair and an engaging smile. This period certainly set him firmly on the path to do battle for the the things that believed him. Not even Howard Hughes (or so he thought) could ever bring him down).

April 5, 1976 Howard Robard grew up like so many rich kids have done down the centuries before him. His father was a wealthy man who made his fortune by designing a drill bit that could penetrate through hard rock. This enabled oil drillers to reach large pockets of oil lying beneath it. Howard Hughes Senior was smart enough to ensure annuity income.

He leased his patented drill bits to oil companies so they couldn't sell them on. Howard Hughes Junior had difficulty focusing on lessons and changed schools rather regularly. In these days we might say he had attention deficit disorder. He grew up in a wealthy household yet preferred to learn by tinkering with mechanical devices r ather than sitting passively in a schoolroom. One day, when his mother forbade him to buy a motorcycle despite all his pocket money, he replied by building a motor out of scrap and installing it on his pedal cycle.

He grew up as a loner obsessed with himself and his own ideas. This was to stand him in good stead when he was challenged in middle life. He had reserves that he could run with until they were almost dry. He was self-sufficient, and needed nobody else's help. By the mid-1950s, Hughes' dislike of being a public figure began to severely affect his life, although he did still travel a bit. H e holed himself up in the Desert Inn Hotel, Las Vegas in 1966 . When the hotel manager told him his time was up as it was not a residential establishment, he purchased it from right under his feet.

In future, Hughes was to become so reclusive that he nearly never left his hotel suite. In truth, hardly a single person ever saw Hughes again except for Jean Peters. That relationship ended too, this time in 1970. Hughes left Las Vegas. Thereafter he was on the move constantly, flitting from one country to another as the mood took him. He died in 1976 aboard a private airplane en route from Acapulco, Mexico to Houston, Texas America.

The only way to identify him for sure was to use his fingerprints. There was nobody around to confirm that he was billionaire Howard Hughes for sure.

Trippe Interest in Flying leads him to begin the First Aviation Club at Yale. In 1917 Juan Trippe began taking classes at the Curtiss Flying School in Miami. That same year, as America entered the First World War, he left Yale University to become a bomber pilot for the Navy. Although spared action he returned to university when the war ended so captivated by flying, that he founded the university's first aviation club to applause of skeptics. His true passion lay in flying, even though he attempted a conventional Wall Street career following graduation. It was not long though before he began making plans to start a new airline called "Pan American" that would be based in New York, but fly to foreign cities. Taking advantage of his political connections, he gained Pan Am the first American government air mail service to the Caribbean. Rich friends flocked to invest as Trippe opened the first offices of Pan American Airways in 1927.

For a short while he called himself Terry Trippe, hoping to garner favor with the White Anglo Saxon Protestants, who always have, and probably always will dominate the United States of America. However when he realized that "Pan Am" was good enough for those political manipulators, Trippe switched back to using the name Juan on the basis that this should negotiate better deals, especially if South American business associates assumed that he was, in fact, Spanish. Trippe's life-long friendship with pioneering aviator Charles Lindbergh began in 1928 when he asked him to serve as a consultant to Pan American Airlines.

This was a killer deal because, to Americans at least, the ground-breaking pilot was everything that symbolized aviation's bright new future. I n fact, it has been said that Trippe's early success in dominating the overseas routes gained turbo boost after he succeed in convincing the most famous aviator in the world to work for his airline. They flew everywhere together in the early 1930s , mapping out new air routes for emerging Pan American.

Sometimes, they even used old sea merchant logs to help Pan Am plot a course across the Pacific. The two visionary men remained life-long friends through a shared belief in aviation's ability to open up new worlds. This was so typical of Juan Trippe's almost uncanny ability to foresee changes in the aviation industry t hroughout his career, and before they happened almost as if he caused them. Trippe made a startling announcement in 1934. "Pan Am is going to conquer the Pacific," he claimed, almost as if he had already achieved it. At that time, crossing the Pacific Ocean in a passenger airliner was thought impossible, since in that vast stretch of open water between America and China there were insufficient places to land, refuel and use the toilet. However Trippe was not to be deterred. He visited the Postmaster with a proposition.

"If Pan Am found a way to cross the Pacific," he postulated, "would we would be guaranteed all the airmail contracts to the Far East? We'd need that to cost-justify the exercise," he explained. Incredulously, the Roosevelt administration decided that it was in the national interest to allow Pan Am to do what it had done in the Caribbean - blaze a path behind which American business and the American military could follow - and agreed to a hugely monopolistic deal. Trippe was never a man who flinched away from spending money when he figured there was money to be made . The ship he fitted out to sail to Wake Island (a tiny piece of land that he knew almost nothing about) and build an airport on it cost him millions of dollars on its own.

In nine challenging months he transformed three square miles of island from an almost barren, uninhabited wasteland into a bustling town with streets, a dock and a seaport. Soon Pan Am Clippers were soon crossing the Pacific. Juan Trippe's gamble had paid off. In the early 1950 J uan Trippe decided that Pan American could benefit enormously from the development of large commercial jetliners. However aircraft manufacturers were decidedly disinterested in building the large passenger jets he envisaged.

These required jet engines - which had been introduced into military aircraft during World War II - that others believed burned too much fuel to be economically viable. Moreover they also thought that the traveling public was perfectly content with flying in slower propeller airplanes. Trippe was hardly one for being turned away. He lured Douglas and Boeing into the jet airliner building business, on the basis that both manufacturers would benefit from Pan Am's big orders. In the end though Juan Trippe was by far the largest winner. The Boeing 707 was born. Mass commercial air travel had arrived.

Soon Trippe was boasting 98 percent seat occupancy on his giant new planes.

he Brewster Inn where (Ralph) Owen lived and died is set in Dexter, Maine. This is less than an hour's drive to Bangor (near where he was born) and beautiful Moosehead Lake (where he hunted and fished as a growing lad). The Inn is ideal for a romantic getaway, a special event, a wedding or a party. It's also perfect as facility space for corporate meetings, and group / spiritual retreats of almost any kind.

The Brewster Inn is a former Maine Governor and Government Senator's family home, on the National Register of Historic Places, and was featured in the Golden Globe award winning movie "The Aviator" starring Leonardo De Caprio (as Howard Hughes) and Alan Alda (as senator Ralph Owen Brewster). We are proud to be part of such fascinating history! Why not come and stay with us and share a trace of human tragedy? So, whether you are looking for a romantic getaway, a quiet weekend of relaxation, or for a wedding or retreat location, a business facility or vacation filled with outdoor activities, escape to the tranquility of the Maine Highlands and the Brewster Inn. Be sure that Dexter, Maine will welcome you! Tourist destinations include Moosehead Lake: 1 hour drive (38 miles), Camden: 1 hour and 42 minute drive (67 miles) Bar Harbor: 2 hour drive (87 miles) Freeport:1 hour and 40 minute drive (99 miles) Portland: 2 hour drive (115 miles), and Canada: (3 hours) Many of our g uests base their vacation at the Brewster Inn, because it is the perfectly historic point from which to enjoy their Maine vacation since everything is within easy reach.

Enjoy the brisk fresh air and beautiful scenery of a Maine winter here at the Brewster Inn. Snowmobiling is a popular sport in this season and Dexter, Maine is located directly on the ITS snowmobile trail. Explore the area and all its quaint charm while lodging with us at the Brewster Inn.

Walk to shops in Dexter where you will find a variety of shopping, antiques and Maine made items. Enjoy the spirit, charm and scenic beauty of rural Maine while enjoying lodging in lovely accommodations at the historic Brewster Inn. Take a drive or bicycle ride around the area and experience an abundance of scenic views from Lake Wassookeag, charming farms and beautiful countryside. In the cooler months, enjoy activities such as our winter town festival complete with horse drawn sled rides.

Snowmobiling, snow shoeing, skiing and ice fishing are also popular activities. In the warmer months, enjoy Dexter's public parks and beach, water sports, fishing and so much more.

The Ghost Lives On I stayed myself at the Brewster Inn last fall. This was a time when the leaves had reached their fullness and the harvest was coming in. It was also a moment when one turns naturally contemplative, especially in an environment as evocative as the Brewster Inn. The evening was a little cool. As I drifted inside, I was pleased to note that my hosts had already lit the fire, and set a sherry glass and a bottle of my favorite Bristol Cream on a side table for me.

As the logs cracked and sent showers of sparks shooting up the chimney, I found myself imagining the voices that might have spoken around that same hearth in decades past. Certainly, the Mayflower Compact would have been a lively subject, especially after activists like Martin Luther King jnr began to allude to it. And after Owen Brewster died, I could imagine the imprecations called down on Hughes. ... that fellow, that upstart ... just who does he think he is ... Brewster was born into an era of innocence, and found his way through two World Wars. I believe he did everything according to his lights. May history be gentle with him. At least, he believed sincerely in everything he did - as opposed to Howard Hughes, who did most things according to his own devices and for his own pleasure.