FACT SHEET Dutchess County is located in the heart of the Hudson Valley, midway between New York City having Albany as its state capital. GEOGRAPHY Area: It has 801.7 square miles Climate: Four seasons, continental Normal Average Temperatures Normal Max: 59.7 (F) Normal Min: 38.1 Terrain: Rolling hills streams forests fall foliage orchards gardens 40 miles Hudson River coast line MAJOR CITIES, TOWNS AND VILLAGES Poughkeepsie Hyde Park Rhinebeck Fishkill Millbrook Millerton Red Hook Pawling Beacon LOCATION TO MAJOR CITIES (IN MILES) Albany, NY 72 Boston, MA 234 Baltimore, MD 269 Bennington, VT 110 Buffalo, NY 359 Hartford, CT 102 Harrisburg, PA 195 Montreal, Que. 302 New York, NY 75 Newark, NJ 111 Philadelphia, PA 165 Richmond, VA 427 Scranton, PA 85 Washington, DC 307 MAJOR ATTRACTIONS Dia: Beacon Eleanor Roosevelt National Historic Site, Val-Kill Franklin D. Roosevelt Home/Library/Museum Locust Grove, Samuel Morse Historic Site Vanderbilt Mansion National Historic Site Richard C. Fisher Center for the Performing Arts at Bard College Staatsburgh State Historic Site Other Places of Interest Bardavon 1869 Opera House Dutchess Stadium, Hudson Valley Renegades The Culinary Institute of America Mount Gulian Historic Site Wilderstein Old Rhinebeck Aerodrome Events Antique & Craft Shows Antique Car Shows Arts & Harvest Festivals Dutchess County Fair Food & Wine Festivals Great Estates Holiday Celebration TRANSPORTATION Highways: - Through the most populated areas of the county, the U.S. Route 9 runs north and south along the Hudson River tying into Interstate 84, which runs east-west, in the county's southern section. Thus, provide access to the Taconic Parkway and to Interstates 84 and 87, the New York State Thruway.

Buses: - An intra-state bus system comprised of the Poughkeepsie City transit system. - Dutchess County Loop System offers routes with both regular and express service. - Shortline offers express service between Poughkeepsie, New York City, Atlantic City, Danbury (CT) Binghamton - Adirondack Trailways offers service between Poughkeepsie and New York City Bridges: - Three bridges cross the Hudson River in Dutchess County: the Hamilton Fish (Newburgh-Beacon) Bridge (Interstate 84) the Franklin D. Roosevelt (Mid-Hudson) Bridge at Poughkeepsie the Kingston-Rhinecliff Bridge Airlines: - Stewart International Airport (SWF) in Newburgh provides service by Allegiant Air - American Airlines, Northwest, and US Airways Express with connecting flights to major destinations worldwide. Trains: - Metro-North serviced Beacon, New Hamburg and Poughkeepsie. - Amtrak services Poughkeepsie and Rhinecliff.

- Metro-North and Amtrak are both located on the scenic Hudson Line of the county's western border. In eastern Dutchess County, Metro-North's Harlem Line services Dover Plains, Pawling, Tenmile River and Wassaic.

TO Poughkeepsie and LaGrange (Tour Length: 45 Miles, 2.5 Hours) The tour route will start north of the Poughkeepsie City on the Hudson, meandering the town and past LaGrange remaining farms and orchards. In 1687, Poughkeepsie was settled after a patent was issued to Myndert Harmense and Robert Sanders. Poughkeepsie's city and town are separately governed. POUGHKEEPSIE CITY In 1714, the city became the Dutchess County seat and it measures 4.78 square miles. In 1799, the hamlet became a village and in 1854, it became a city. The center of state government during the era of the Revolutionary War and was the scene on July 26, 1788, of New York's ratification of the US Constitution was the courthouse built at the corner of Main and Market streets. Boosters like Mayor Harvey Eastman (1871-74, 77, 78) made the city a civic and cultural center. POUGHKEEPSIE TOWN It was formed in 1788, where the town surrounds the city that extend into the Hudson.

It has 38.68 square miles and has the centers of Arlington, Fairview, New Hamburg, Rochdale and part of the Village of Wappingers Falls. The town's major waterways are the Casperkill , Falkill, and Wappinger Creeks. Proximity to the river and the King's Highway soon made it the county center of commerce, government and transportation.

It is the hometown of Governor George Clinton and painter/inventor Samuel F.B. Morse. LaGRANGE The place was called "Freedom" when formed as a town in 1821. However, in 1829, the patriotic enthusiasts renamed it LaGrange for LaFayette's farm in France. The Sprout Creek and Wappinger Creek are its main waterways Former dairy farms and orchards are now sprouting suburbs.

Historic Gardens & Kitchens Itinerary You will b egin your garden and kitchens journey at Locust Grove, The Samuel B. Morse Historic Site on Route 9 in Poughkeepsie. What features on the house tour are the extensive collection of china which dining room is set for Sunday dinner. You can see the butler's pantry and full kitchen and imagine how's everyone busy preparing for food. The kitchen vegetable garden shows not just what each family grew, yet also what is divided into plots that illustrate what new waves of immigrants would plant to eat. You'll continue the tour north on Route 9 to Hyde Park to get a glimpse of former President Roosevelt world-- a president who always listed his occupation as "tree farmer." You'll start your Roosevelt experience at the Henry A. Wallace Visitor and Education Center, part of the FDR Presidential Home, Library & Museum. Since you're already in Hyde Park, don't miss to visit the Vanderbilt Mansion National Historic Site for you to see how the America's richest man lived during the "Gilded Age." The family has more than 50 local workers to cook, to clean, and to oversee the grounds and farm, wherein the Vanderbilt's grew much of their own food and all the flowers for their lavish arrangements.

After the tour and before you check in for the night, experience how to celebrate with the region's rich agricultural bounty at Twist-- a casual American restaurant in Hyde Park, or Terrapin in nearby Rhinebeck.

Bike Tours It has 6 self-guided bike tours with directions and maps in one publication. Location: Dutchess County Tourism, Poughkeepsie. Contacts: 845/463-4000 or 800/445-3131 URL : DutchessTourism.com Historic and Scenic Driving Tours It has 7 self-guided drive tours with directions, road signage, and maps in one publication. Location: Dutchess County Tourism Promotion Agency, Poughkeepsie. Contact:s 845/463-4000 or 800/445-3131 URL: DutchessTourism.com Hudson River Valley Tours, LLC Itinerary planning, step-on-guides. Reservations for accommodations, attractions, meals & transportation for groups of 15 or more visiting the Hudson Valley.

Location: Rosendale Contact: 845/658-3101, 800-382-3813 URL: HudsonRiverValleyTours.com Exclusive Wine Vacations You can spend here your weekend escape with packages that offer local transportation, lodging, and escorted tours of wineries. Location: Poughkeepsie Contact: 845/485-7221 URL: ExclusiveWineVacations.com In a New York Minute Booking of accommodations, reservations, tours, transportation, obtaining tickets to events. Location: Lagrangeville Contact: 845/797-4314 URL: InaNYMinute.net Shortline/Coach USA Description: Individual & group tour packages from NYC to Hyde Park, Rhinebeck and Poughkeepsie. Location: 4 Leisure Ln., Mahwah, NJ.

Contact: 800/631-8405, x1331 URL: ShortlineBus.com Walking Guide, Village of Tivoli and Red Hook Map offers history of both villages and a walking guide to indicate places of historic and cultural interest. Location: Village offices, Tivoli Bays Visitor Center at dePeyster Hall or Red Hook Chamber of Commerce Information Station. Contact: 845/757-2021 URL: RedHookNYVillage.org Segway of the Hudson Valley Glide along the scenic and ever changing Hudson River and visit historic Poughkeepsie on a Segway PT. Location: Poughkeepsie Contact: 845/485-7349 URL: www.SegwayoftheHudsonValley.com Walking Tour, Murals and Sculpture of Poughkeepsie Indoor and outdoor murals, contemporary and historic sculptures and monuments tour held on Saturday mornings from 10 am-12 pm from April through October. Location: Poughkeepsie (meet at Cunneen-Hackett Theater, 9 Vassar St. for start of walk). Contact: 845/486-1378, FPalaia@Earthlink.ne