This was entitled A Dozen on Denver and was published to coincide with the 150th anniversary of the city of Denver. They asked eleven authors to choose a different decade of Denver's history and write a 2500 word story about it. They were also instructed to mention Larimer Street at least once in their story. A story was printed every Tuesday and then all the stories were reprinted together in a special section along with the story written by the winner of a story contest run by the paper. This contest invited readers to send in their original stories set in Denver's future. They too were instructed to mention Larimer Street somewhere within the story. There were almost 200 entries with wide ranging content.

Three people read all the stories. These people were Sandra Dallas, a Denver author, former Tattered Cover book buyer Margaret Maupin, and publishing consultant Laurie Brock. These three then narrowed down the selection to five finalists and Rocky Books Editor Patti Thorn then chose the winning story from these final five. The winner was Heirlooms, by Robert Pogue Ziegler. The runners up were Boomtown, by Sean Rima, Electric Sheep, by Nancy Graham, Mizpah,by Linda Berry and Three White Horses, by Ben O'Neal. The stories were also available to download from the website in pdf format, along with professional audio readings and interviews.

Executives of the agency outlines changes that could be made to benefit the papers. Kirk MacDonald was appointed chief executive officer of the agency and stated that the goal of the agency was to make the transition easy and with minimal disruption to everyone involved and keep two unique newspapers in the region. The agency was not given any influence over the editorial content of the papers. The aspects of the papers that were combined were the marketing, sales and advertising departments as well as distribution, IT, HR and finance. Both newspapers however were still produced individually with their own editorial department and printed at their own current production facilities.

The headquarters of the Agency were based at the Rocky Mountain News offices in Colfax Avenue, however the editorial staff of The Post stayed at The Post's office on Broadway along with some of the business staff. Although both papers were kept, there were some changes. On weekends, Post Subscribers started to be sent the weekend Rocky Mountain News, and The Post on Saturdays, and Rocky Mountain News subscribers were sent both the Sunday Denver Post and Rocky Mountain News.

There was little change to the circulation area for either paper. The daily circulation for both papers together was at least 770000, with Sundays reaching around 940000 and peak week days 855000.

There was much discussion over the fairness of this, with Rocky Mountain News contributor Jason Salzman stating that putting the paper on the market for just one month, and over the holiday period too did not look like a real effort to find a buyer. He wrote about this in his column but editor and publisher John Temple rejected the column so it was never printed. Salzman posted on his own blog that it was the first time in over four years that the paper had refused to print one his 'On the Media' columns that he had been writing biweekly.

Salzman put his article on his blog because he thought the issue was important and wanted to put forward the idea of federal intervention. The website was focused on garnering public support for their campaign. The site asked readers to send in their memories of the paper over the years and send it suggestions as to how the paper could be kept running.

The staff felt that the oldest business in Colorado was well worth saving. The site also encouraged readers to get in touch with the owners of the paper to make their views heard. They supplied contact information and a pre-written letter for readers to make use of if they wished.

A Montana based media company announced that it wanted to purchase the paper but this never came to anything. The White Wolf Media Group and investment partners also stated that they were going to put in a bid on the paper. However the owner of the group commented that the six week deadline was very tight for getting the finances together and reviewing the deal.

He also went on to say that at that point the group was not fully familiar with the financial problems facing the paper, nor were they sure that other investors would be interested in joining with a purchase deal. Again this never materialised. A Wall Street analyst stated that if Scripps was unable to sell the Rocky Mountain News and its 50% interest in the JOA, they were likely to incur a charge of $10 million to close the paper. Other people then commented that it was more likely to be in the region of $14 million.

Another issue would be the dissolution of the joint operating agreement. The agreement, regulated under the Newspaper Preservation Act of 1970, allows competitors to become collaborators while still keeping the two individual news voices. The Denver joint operating agreement was meant to last fifty years, with the profits split evenly between the two publishers to cover expenses. Media News had right of first refusal and could reject any buyer it considered unsuitable. It was unlikely that Media News would be interested in purchasing the paper though. One way out of the agreement if the Denver Newspaper Agency loses money for three consecutive years. Losses had been seen that year but there had been profits previously.

Even if there had been losses for three years, it would take another three years for the contract to be dissolved unless both sides could come to an earlier agreement.The agreement could also could dissolve if either partner seriously breached its contractual obligations. If the News stopped publishing, then this could well count as a breach of contract.