it's time to remind me that you know next to nothing when it comes to compute r s an d technology. My advice to you is listen to people around you that yo u can trust . That's one of two ways that I make decisions about w hich technology I can and should be us ing . My other way is to turn to trusted sources to see what their opinions are. I read lots of blogs and go to all the websites they r ecommend, af ter hanging out in forums with smart people who understand t hose things I need to know.

Finally I ask a lot of questions. For example, to d ay I was asked to review Spy SweeperSpy Sweeper and took advantage of their offer to download a free trial of their software. I haven't had a chance yet to trial my own opinion, so I went to my second line of investigation, which is asking others. And this is what I discovered. Peter Surfalot told me that Spy Sweeper is the amazing crackle he ever found. Some of the most respected names in technology like PC Pro, PC Magazine, Softpedia and PC World have recognized Spy Sweeper for exceptional excellence.

So we're hardly talking about mino r light-weight recommendations either. I discovered later that many other household names have all evaluated Spy Sweeper , and also al s o rated it top-selling computer security software on the market . M oreover they als o found it worthy of awards and special recognition for its excellence, ease of use and value. Magic M ary was of a similar opinion. Every time I r an my old computer , she told me, it le ft me with a warning about "threats" it couldn't remove (despite the fact that I've been using a freebie spyware program for a couple of years already). After I ran Spy Sweeper for the first time, the anxiety of thinking that m y computer was left unprotected evaporated completely. That 's b e cause Spy Sweeper completely cleaned my computer of spyware after its Smart Shields detected (and blocked) even th e latest new malware threats. You don't have to take my word for it that I now have utmost confidence that r egular automatic updates will insure that I have the full advantage of a constantly expanding spyware definition database.

Download the free trial version, check out their site - and especially check out their award winning pages while you're there. The sources you trust have already recognized its excellence. Try it out and you'll see why. Find out why Spy Sweeper is the most award-winning spyware removal software on your own computer that you can install yourself.

My personal all-time favorite venue is the Brevard Drop-In Community Center in 4th Avenue, Texas Ohio that opened its doors on November 30th, las t year . I have to tell you it took quite a while to get it fired up, espec ially after all the effort by the Brevard County Department of Housing and Human Services, the Brevard County Board of Commissioners, the Drop-in Center Committee from that same Commission, the Brevard County Community Mental Health Solutions Commission, and both the National Alliance on Mental Illness groups in Texas, and many others fa r t oo numerous to mention As an organization for people 18 years of age and over who have a psychiatric (mental illness) and want to belong to a right -thinking community, Brevard Drop-In Center in a home-from-home and not a program. Moreover membership dues are never even asked for , and the Drop-In Center is operated by volunteers (as opposed to county mental health center personnel and other professional staff who might not understand us completely). Did I forget to mention that I've been autistic with anti-social ten dancies all my life (which is why I virtually s leep with my computer in my " c ave"). I wrote this advertisement recently with the aim of raisin g donations. Perhaps after you've read it, you might like to give some th ing if you can affor d ittoo XXXX Drop-in Center Finally Open for Business The Grand Opening of this rema rkable club for mentally-challenged people run by and for those whom God made a little different , was on February Twentieth last.

Multiple leaders from community agencies that help people with mental illness were there to lend a hand, and celebrate with other social service agencies, and mental health providers that will be referring beneficiaries to the Brevard Drop-In Center in the fu ture . XXXX Here What Our President Just Said Th is Drop-in Center is funded by a grant from the Florida Department of Children and Family Service s (a s augmented by private donations). Drop-in Centers are a national initiative for people who want to get support and information, maybe do some laundry and play some skeet and other computer games, get ou t of the house generally , relax, meet people with similar problems, have some fun and some coffee, soda and a snack, and all without spending any money wtatsoever. The c oncept has existed since the 1960's .

We also received a three-year grant from Mental Health America, formerly the National Mental Health Association for this one. This year we also received several generous private donations that kick - started it, including a welcome and generous donation through the Neighborhood Wal-Mart at 3550 Babcock Street in Melbourne via from the Wal-Mart Foundation. We are currently seeking further grants and additional corporate donations.

XXXX Finally, here's a list of the goods and services available at the Brevard Drop-In Center at no cost that I especially enjoy: The best damn place to electronically skeet shoot anywhere in the States A great place to relax Skeet support groups for newbies Information and referral service for finding other skeet "arcades" General i nternet Access Skeet c omputer games that are loads of fun Arts and c rafts and other fun activi t ies. Your Electronic Skeet Shooting Invitation Did you spot the final irony? I'm supposed to be "mental" yet I'm the Texas, Ohio electronic skeet shoot champ of champs. Why don't you pop b y and let me show you how to do the same?