EEO policies in theory are administered and communicated to provide an effective and efficient work environment for all employees and job applicants. Such communication needs to start with supervisory personnel through employee handbooks and manuals, forms, handouts, training sessions and films, meetings and retreats, and a variety of other means of educating supervisory personnel. Some of the major issues to be covered include federal and state laws which relate to equal opportunity; the employer's specific EEO policies and how they relate to addressing and solving employment discrimination concerns; selection procedures used for hiring, promotion, training, and termination decisions; and employee procedures for handling complaints of discrimination in any form.

The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) is a federal agency charged with ending employment discrimination. The EEOC investigates discrimination complaints based on an individual's race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age, disability and retaliation for reporting and/or opposing a discriminatory practice.

The definition of equal opportunity has expanded over the years to encompass equal opportunity in recruitment, hiring, training, layoffs, discharge, recall, promotions, responsibility, wages, sick leave, vacation, overtime, insurance, retirement, pensions, and various other benefits. In order to provide and protect equal opportunity, the federal government as well as state governments have established offices and agencies to provide guidelines, education, and programs for employers and employees. Corporations and organizations have developed separate offices or units to deal with the various aspects of equal opportunity.

These units often spend a significant part of their budgets to promote equal access. Given the steep cost of litigation and the various costs associated with labor turnover, most employers find that awareness of equal employment issues is a must. More recently, corporations and other organizations have followed the government's example to create a workplace environment where equal opportunity is an accepted and common practice. These and other employer-initiated programs are generally financed by the company but are usually cost-effective in helping to eliminate employment discrimination and other illegal practices which, in the end, prove expensive for the employer. Historically, equal opportunity in the United States was associated with African Americans and, later, women seeking to level out fundamental social inequities. More recently, persons with disabilities, veterans, and the aged have fallen under the protection of equal opportunity. These groups or classes of individuals are termed a "protected" class, defined as persons who have suffered the effects of employment discrimination or broader social discrimination that impedes their ability gain equal footing in the job market. The history of equal opportunity is traced through a continuum of federal legislation, executive orders, government agency decisions, and court cases.

Although most would consider equal opportunity a recent concept, the true beginning of the idea can be traced to the Fourteenth Amendment (1868). This landmark constitutional doctrine did not address equal opportunity directly, but it did provide for equal protection under the law. The provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment would be circumvented for years, but lawmakers, attorneys, and civil rights advocates would constantly seek the shield of its protection. In 1933, Congress passed the Unemployment Relief Act , which forbade discrimination in employment on the basis of race, color, or creed.

During World War II Congress again discussed equal opportunity and fairness in employment legislation. These early efforts to eliminate discrimination in employment gained little steam but nevertheless continued to build toward significant federal programs. Finally, popular struggle scored a major victory in the struggle for civil rights after the Supreme Court's Brown v. Board of Education decision of 1954, which bolstered the civil rights movement and ultimately led to a series of government initiatives to end discrimination. The "new frontier" of the Kennedy administration marked the initial steps of the revolution in equal opportunities. In early 1961 President John F. Kennedy signed Executive Order 10925, establishing the President's Committee on Equal Opportunity.

This set the concept of equal opportunity in motion not only for government employment but also for employees in government contracts, a step which would provide leverage for enforcing equal employment opportunities. The next stage was the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, signed by President Lyndon Johnson, who sought to continue Kennedy's policies with his own set of programs called the Great Society. The primary goal of affirmative action remedies has been correcting employers' underutilization of certain groups in employment-mainly African Americans and, to a lesser degree, women and other ethnic minorities. Such remedies may also take the form of back pay or retrospective awarding of seniority rights. For federal contractors with 50 or more employees, written affirmative action plans are required, and successive federal legislation has included provisions for the utilization of qualified handicapped individuals, veterans and disabled veterans, and other protected classes.