5 Ways to Save Money in Shoeing Your Horse Average horses are shod for about 8 times yearly with an average cost of $70/shoeing, so charging you $560/year just to keep your horse shod. To minimize your expenses, here are 5 suggestions you may consider. These as well give your horses the best care possible. 1. Educate yourself. By teaching yourself how to examine a good trimming from a bad one can already save you money. You can research on the internet for the articles that will give you ideas on hoof caring and shoeing problems. 2. Select the best farrier for your horse. The lowest priced farrier is not necessarily the least expensive. In fact, more often than not he is the most expensive in the long run. You can ask your veterinarian for a suggestion. 3. Have your horse shod or trimmed on time. Average horses need a trimming or shoeing every 6 to 8 weeks. Stretching the time between for shoeing can cause several hoof problems in the long run. Horses' hooves grow and wear out of balance, with or without shoes. And the longer you go between farrier visits, the more time and effort it takes the farrier to put your horse right, which will obviously cost you more money. 4. Follow the farriers advice. When you selected the farrier to look after your horse, it is expected that you have to pay him respect and follow his advices,. because you have to consider that he is an expert in his profession. If he tells you to keep the horse out of the mud, you ride the horse easy or follow a specific hoof care program and do n't ignore his advice. 5. Learn how to keep your farrier . Everyone wants their appointment to be always on time. And when you expect your farrier to be on time for his appointments, he will as well expect you to get your horse ready prior to his arrival. When we say the horse is ready, it means that your horse is already caught, fed, watered, cleaned and trained to accept trimming and shoeing. It is necessary to provide your farrier with a proper shoeing environment out of the wind and rain, sheltered from the hot sun, on a clean and dry level place. Payment for the job depends on the farrier's options, so better discuss it ahead of time. If you follow these 5 money saving tips diligently, you will find that it's not only your horse that would benefit from receiving the best care possible rather you as well when doing minimal damage to your bank account. HOOF INJURIES Unfortunately, horses' hooves are not only prone to several diseases rather to several types of injuries as well. The common hoof's injuries are bruises, punctures and abscesses. Bruises & Puncture 1. Bruise: Bruise is the simplest injury. It is a blunt blow which distorts the outer casing good enough to damage the inner tissue that cause pockets of blood and serum to collect, which is an ideal environment for bacterial to grow. However, if the bruise remains sterile, usually it will resolve spontaneously in about 1 to 4 weeks. 2. Puncture: Compare to bruise, a puncture is a more serious injury. The wound entrance closes over behind the retreating offending abject, which create for all the necessary ingredients to start an abscess . Actually, any puncture in the foot that can penetrate the sensitive tissue will develop to produce an abscess. The depth and location of the puncture determines the seriousness of the injury. Abscesses If your horse had an abscess, he is reluctant to stand on his foot because foot abscesses tend to be painful . The infection may even result in soft-tissue swelling in his lower limb. The abscess treatment involves the opening of the abscess to allow the blood, serum or pus to be drained out, that if it is opened immediately, bacterial infection can be prevented. If a horse's found which foot has still the nail in it, do not remove it yourself. Immediately, call your vet to radiograph the foot with the nail in place to be able to determine which structures are involved. Abscesses subsequent treatment may involve: The soaking of foot in hot water and Epsom salts in order to draw out the offending material Pack the wound with an antiseptic or astringent like iodine, betadine, or ichthammol, and keep it clean using a bandage, boot or treatment plate. Continue the mentioned treatment until the infection is cured and the foot has grown out new tissues. You may use a shoe and pad if you let your horse return to work while the wound continues to be cured. Still, prevention is the wisest thing to do. Keeping your horses' environment free from debris such as nails and sharp stones can limit the occurrence of having abscesses or bruises. 