One of the interactive displays at Maropeng, at the Cradle of Mankind in Sterkstroom, South Africa showcases the development of the brain over millennia. The evolution of the modern human brain has enabled us to think, feel, plan and act the way we do. This may not be apparent in some individuals though. Implications of a more complex brain The brain's development enabled hominids to make and use tools and fire, communicate using language, develop culture and society, adapt to new environments and, finally, to become self-aware and creative. Maybe that's where it all went wrong? This dramatic expansion in the size of the human brain had an immediate impact on the lifestyle and social structure of hominids. A combination of a growing brain case relative to a narrow pelvic outlet meant that mothers had to give birth to children earlier, and that newborn babies were thus relatively immature. This meant that infants depended on parental care for increasingly prolonged periods. Due to its vulnerability during infancy, a young hominid would have had a far greater chance of survival if its mother and father remained in a monogamous relationship a trait that was advanced through natural selection. What large brains mean to us today Although many would argue the precise opposite , our large brains have saved us from extinction. We have learned to shape our world to a large extent to suit ourselves and to adapt with ingenuity to situations beyond our control. The development of the human brain has, over time, enabled us to develop at an astonishing rate as a species. That said, if all the dramatic changes to our lives was to be shown as 1 hour on the clock - the hour representing man's entire existence on the planet - then all the action since World War ll would be crunched into the last 10 seconds! That mankind has managed to produce complex computer technology, both in the area of hardware and software development, is a remarkable fete in terms of progress. Machines that can perform billions of calculations a second, build vehicles that can carry us all over the world and even beyond it, broadcast messages to millions of people simultaneously, develop medicines and health care that can prolong lives, and develop culture that enriches our lives daily. Unfortunately though, to every credit there has to be a corresponding debit and, alas, our modern brains have also pushed us in the direction of sophisticated warfare, even to the point of weapons of mass destruction. Moving ahead Increases in the size and organisation of the brain are thought to be important markers for the development of human-like behavior. A number of scientists believe that as our early hominid ancestors brains grew, so did their ability to make and use tools, develop language and think laterally as well as symbolically. Where do you rate? Homo ergaster Brain capacity: 900 cc (couldn't make it up the mountain pass) Australopithecus Brain capacity: 450 cc (didn't even get to the hill) Homo habilis Brain capacity: 600 cc (didn't know forward from reverse commands) Homo neanderthalensis Brain capacity: 1500 cc (starting to cook on gas, except he still had to find some!) Big brain, small beginnings Proportionally speaking, hominid brains are relatively large among the general animal kingdom, perhaps this gives us a 'head start', please excuse the pun! Now look at a bottlenose dolphin - this magnificent creature has a brain size similar to us. Problem is, its body weight is more than twice as heavy as ours, exceptionally fat humans excepted. A cow has a brain weight three times as small as ours and a body weight seven times as heavy - no prizes for guessing who ended up milking who! Caution! Before you decide our species is unique, and way ahead, consider the humble mouse: it has a brain about a third larger than our human brain, in ratio to its body size. It's no wonder that we end up on the table when the mouse pops out of nowhere! The missing 'link'. Australopithecus, considered a bridge between ape and human and appearing more than 4-million years ago, had an average cranial capacity of about 450 cc to 500 cc about the size of a ripe orange. The earliest species of Homo (sapien, not sexual) named so far, Homo habilis, which appeared about 2.3-million years ago, had an average cranial capacity of about 600 cc. How do we know this for sure? We've been unearthing the truth... Homo ergaster, lived from about 1.7-million to 1.4-million years ago, had a cranial capacity ranging from 800 cc to 1200 cc, with an average of about 900 cc. Quite a cool dud in the overall scheme of things! The species Homo sapiens, to which modern humans belong, has an average brain size of about 1400 cc. Is it still expanding? Probably, but where's it all going to end up? Our brains are almost double the size of early Homo habilis and almost three times the size of early australopithecines. High Five time! It seems that parts of our early ancestors brains changed relatively little over a long period of time - mind you, that could be said about some of our relatives too. Something seems to have stepped in to act as a catalyst at some point - could it have been a visitation from creatures from another world out looking for 'intelligent' life? We'll never know for sure, but hominid brains show an expansion in the cerebellum and neocortex, areas which are associated with learning, conscious thought and reasoning. It has to be said under a general warning, that increases in brain size does not necessarily correlate with greater intelligence. Just look at our politicians for example. Neanderthals had a brain bigger than modern humans with an average of about 1500 cc, but lacked the complex belief systems and symbolic thinking unique to us. Maybe they never got visited from outer space?