Sunlight energy supports almost all life on Earth through photosynthesis , and controls the Earth's climate and weather.The sun also gives off u ltraviolet light which gives us sunburn, it also has antiseptic properties and is used to sanitize water and tools and it is enables our bodies to produce Vitamin D. The amount of ultraviolet light in the atmosphere varies quite greatly across the globe, and is believed to be partially responsible for several biological adaptations such as the differences in skin colour of people living in different parts of the world. In many ancient and prehistoric cultures the Sun was thought to be a god. Sun Worship was a major part of the life of several ancient civilizations such as the Inca and the Aztecs. The world is full of monuments constructed around the sun. In Egypt, Malta, England and many other places, there are great stone megaliths that accurately mark the summer or winter solstice. There is a pyramid of El Castillo at Chich n Itz in Mexico that was built in a certain manner, so that during the vernal and autumn equinox, shadows are cast that look like serpents climbing the pyramid walls, and Newgrange in Ireland was built in prehistoric times to mark the winter solstice. The Romans celebrate the winter solstice with a holiday called Sol Invictus which means U nconquered Sun. This holiday was a precursor to what we now know of as Christmas . A high presence of heavy el ements such as gold and uranium in the Solar System, compared to other stars suggests that t he formation of the Sun could have been started by shock waves from a nearby supernova . These elements could not realistically have been made by endergonic nuclear reactions during a supernova , or even by transmutation through neutron absorption in a second generation star. The Sun doesn't have enough mass to explode as a supernova. Instead, in around five billion years from now, it will become a red giant with its outer layers expanding as the hydrogen fuel in the core is consumed and the core contracts and heats up. This will trigger Helium fusion when the temperature at the core reaches around 100 million kelvins and carbon will be produced. Scientists have done much research into this and it is predicted that the Earth will not survive. Instead it will be consumed by the Sun due to tidal interactions. Even if the Earth managed to avoid being incinerated, all the water on the planet would boil away and most of the atmosphere would escape into space.The Sun is constantly getting hotter and brighter; so much so that in around one billion years, the surface of the Earth will become too hot for liquid water to exist. That will be the end of life on Earth. After this phase, the Sun will cool slowly over billions of years as a white dwarf. As seen from Earth, the path of the Sun across the sky changes during the year. If considering the shape created by noting the position of the sun in the sky every day for year, the resulting shape is called the analemma and looks like a figure eight.The most obvious variation in the position of the Sun as observed from earth is the north /south swing of more than forty seven degrees. This is what gives us our seasons. The Sun lies is close to the inner edge of the Orion Arm of our Milky Way Galaxy at around 24,800 lightyears from the Galactic Center. The solar apex , is the direction that the Sun travels through space in the Milky Way, and the general direction is towards the star Vega near the constellation of Hercules. The orbit of the Sun around the Galaxy is thought to be roughly elliptical with some perturbations because of un-even mass distributions and the spiral arms. The Sun oscillates in an up and down manner relative to the galactic plane about 2.7 times per orbit, similar to a simple harmonic oscillator with no damping. The Solar System take around 225250 million years to complete one orbit of the galaxy, so it is believed to have completed 2025 orbits during the life of the Sun and 1/1250th of a revolution since the origin of human beings on Earth. The speed of the Solar System about the center of the Galaxy is around 251 km/s taking about 1400 years for the Solar System to travel a distance of 1 lightyear. The existence of a mass fractionation relationship between the isotopic compositions of solar and planetary noble gases has often been a subject of discussion for scientists for many years, however up until 1983 most scientists believed that the entire Sun had the same composition as the solar atmosphere. Then in 1983 it was thought that the it was the fractionation in the Sun itself that caused the fractionation relationship between the isotopic compositions of planetary and solar wind implanted noble gases. When looking at the Sun through a filter, the first thing you see will normally be these sun spots. They are obvious as dark defined areas on the surface of the Sun, caused by the lower temperatures in those areas. The Sun spots themselves are areas of very great magnetic activity within which we see the inhibition of convection due to the very strong magnetic fields This then reduces the transportation of energy to the surface from the super heated core of the Sun. The magnetic field also causes the corona to heat up to a high temperature. This in turn cause areas of activity to form which become the source of massive solar flares and coronal mass ejections. The largest sunspots can be tens of thousands of kilometers across. Right now the Sun is passing through the Local Interstellar Cloud in the low density Local Bubble zone of diffuse high temperature gas within the inner rim of the Orion Arm of the Milky Way Galaxy. It has been suggested that the Sun's passing through the higher density spiral arms of the galaxy could have caused mass extinctions on Earth due to increased impact events . The core of the Sun extends from the center to around 0.2 solar radii.The density of the core is up to 150,000 kg/m3 and has a temperature of around 13,600,000 kelvins, much hotter than the surface. From data collected via the SOHO mission it thought that the core rotates faster than in the rest of the radiative area. The core is the only part of the Sun that creates a large amount of heat through fusion. Energy is transferred from the core to the rest of the Sun. This energy travels through all the layers of the Sun until it is released as what we call sunlight, travelling through space to heat and light the Earth. Between 0.2 and 0.7 solar radii, solar material is hot enough and dense enough for the heat to be transferred outward via radiation. In the outer layer of the Sun, the solar plasma is not dense or hot enough to transfer energy by radiation; thus thermal convection carries hot material to the photosphere. When it cools at the surface it goes back down to be heated up again and the process continues. This convection process creates a small dynamo that produces magnetic north and south poles over the surface of the Sun. On occasion, just after sunset or just before sunrise a rare optical phenomenon may occur called a green flash. This phenomenon happens because light from the sun below the horizon is bent through an inversion of temperature. The short wavelength light is bent more than long wavelength, but is scattered more, leaving light that is seen to be green in colour. The photosphere is hundreds of kilometers thick and slightly less opaque than the air on Earth. The upper part of the photosphere is cooler than the lower part so an image of the Sun appears to be brighter in the center than at the edge. The photosphere has a particle density of about 1023 m 3. Early studies of the optical spectrum of the photosphere showed some absorption lines that did not correspond to any chemical elements known on Earth at that time. Then, in 1868 Norman Lockyer came up with the theory that the absorption lines were due to an undiscovered element.He named this hypothetical element Helium after Helios, the Greek god of the Sun.It would be another twenty five years before Helium would be isolated on Earth. Any part of the Sun outside of the photosphere is referred to as the solar atmosphere. This can beseen with telescopes operating across the electromagnetic spectrum and via from radio through visible light to gamma rays. The solar atmosphere is made up of five main parts. These are called the temperature minimum, the chromosphere, the transition region, the corona, and the heliosphere. The heliosphere is the outermost part of the solar atmosphere and extends out past the orbit of Pluto into the heliopause. There it forms a very sudden boundary with the interstellar medium. The chromosphere, transition region, and corona are all at a much higher temperature than the Sun's surface. Scientists do not yet know why this is the case. The temperature minimum area is so called because it is the coolest part of the Sun. It is situated around 500km out from the photosphere and has a temperature of around 4000 Kelvin. This area is even cool enough to simple molecules to exist in it, such as water and carbon monoxide which have been detected there. The chromosphere, named for the Greek chroma which means 'colour', lies above the temperature minimum layer in a layer just 2500 km thick. This layer is mainly composed of spectrum of emission and absorption lines. The chromosphere can be seen as a colored flash at the start and finish of solar total eclipses. Above the chromosphere is a transition region. Here the temperature rises quickly from around 100000 Kelvin to nearly a million Kelvin. This sudden increase in temperature is due to a phase transition ashelium within the area which then becomes fully ionized by these high temperatures. The transition region doesn't occur at a particular altitude, instead it forms a nimbus around chromospheric features such asspicules and filaments. The transition region moves constantly and randomly.You can't easily see the transition region from Earth, however it is easily observed from space using instrument that can see the far ultraviolet part of the spectrum. The extended outer atmosphere of the Sun is called the corona. The corona has a much bigger volume than the Sun. It gently mingles with the solar winds. The low corona is close to the surface of the Sun and has a density of 1014 1016 m 3. The temperature of the corona is several million K. Some of the heat can be attributed to magnetic reconnection, however all of this great heat cannot yet be accounted for by current scientific study. The heliosphere extends from around 20 solar radii to the outermost edges of the Solar System. As we have discussed previously, the Sun is made mainly of hydrogen and helium. hydrogen makes up 74.9% of the mass of the Sun in the photosphere and helium makes up 23.8% of it. Less than 2% of the mass of the photosphere is made up of heavy metals. The main heavy metals present in hte photosphere are oxygen, which makes up around 1% of the mass of the photosphere, carbon which accounts for around 0.3% of the mass of the photosphere, neon which is about 0.2% of the Sun's mass and iron which is also around 0.2% of the mass of the Sun. The chemical composition of the Sun of course originated from the interstellar medium from which it was made.The Big Bang nucleosynthesis will have produced hydrogen and helium which are the two main components of the Sun . The metals will have come from the interstellar medium, originally being material created by stellar nucleosynthesis in stars, then returned to the interstellar medium after the death of the star. In the inner portions of the Sun, Nuclear fusion has modified the composition of the inner parts of the sun via conversion of hydrogen into helium. The significance of the large amount of iron group elements in the Sun was the subject of a lot of research in the 70s. Due to the hyperfine structures of these iron group elements, it was hard at that time to identify someo of them. In 1978 however, the abundances of singly-ionised elements of the iron group were calculated due to improved oscillator strengths. As sunlight is very bright, looking directly at the Sun can cause pain. When you look directly at the sun, around 4 milliwatts of sunlight hits your retina and heats it slightly. The can cause damage to your eyes if they don't respond well to changes in brightness. It can cause phosphene visual artifacts and temporary partial blindness. Prolonged exposure to ultraviolet rays with yellow the lens of the eye over time. It is thought to be a contributing factor to cataracts. This is simply through exposure to sunlight though and not asa result of looking directly at the sun. If you look directly at the sun for an extended period of time it can become dangerous. After about 100 seconds, sunburn type lesions can occur on the retina caused by ultraviolet light. The results of this can be worse on the eyes of young people or those with new lens implants. Looking at the Sun through any sort of light-concentrating optics such as through a pair of binoculars is very dangerous unless you are using an ultraviolet dimming filter. Using a pair of unfiltered binoculars you will be receiving more than 500 times as much sunlight energy into your retina as you would were you looking at the sun with the naked eye. This level of energy can kill retina cells instantaneously. Just a quick look at the midday Sun through unfiltered binoculars can cause permanent blindness. A recommended safe way to view the Sun is to project the image onto a screen. Hazy conditions, atmospheric dust, and high humidity cause atmospheric attenuation at sunrise and sunset, and the sun is often safer to look at directly during these times. Partial solar eclipses are particularly dangerous to look at because the pupil is not used to this level of contrast. Pupil dilate according to the overall amount of light in the field of vision, the brightness level of particular objects does not affect the dilation, and so during a partial eclipse, the pupil will not dilate enough to accommodate this phenomenon and so each retinal cell exposed to the solar image receives about ten times more light than it would receive from looking at the Sun during an average daytime. This can damage or kill the retinal cells leaving permanent blind spots. The problem with this type of damage is that it is not painful, so the damage could easily be quite bad before you even notice.