The Mid-Atlantic Gem & Mineral Association present the Annual MAGMA Show, the Gem Miner's Jubilee at the Lebanon Expo & Fairgrounds, Lebanon, Pennsylvania . The event is held each year and features exhibits and items for sale from over seventy sellers from around the world. You see fossils, gems and minerals as well as jewellery and beads. You'll get the chance to meet the people who find these natural treasures. There's such a variety of products on display and for sale for all budgets and tastes. From rough rock to fine finished jewelry, loose gemstones, pearls, fossils, cabochons, carvings, crystals and plenty more besides. You can even have jewellery created while you wait by artists at the show, or you could have your jewellery repaired by an expert. At the show you'll also have the chance to attend demonstrations, classes and seminars.

While some of these are available to attend for a small fee, many are free. The show is held in an air conditioned building. Outside of the building is a tailgating are and tent city full of vendors with some great bargains available. There are plenty of opportunities to win prizes too. If you have a tax number and a business related to the trade, there is a large wholesale section of the show to visit as well. There is also a campsite with restrooms and showers and a limite number of electric hook ups so you can stay overnight for a small fee. There's also a valet parking facility at the show. As well as the Gem Miner's Jubilee, the Mid-Atlantic Gem & Mineral Association also host a smaller event in November called the Gem Miner's Holiday Festival.

Held in the same location at the Lebanon Expo & Fairgrounds this event runs for just two days over a weekend in November and features over 35 of the vendors from the larger August event. It's a great Christmas shopping opportunity and there are also prizes to be won at this event too.

There are several shows held in Tucson and many gem and rock enthusiasts make a holiday of it and attend them all as they are all held in the same fortnight. This is usually at the end of January and the beginning of February each year. It can be confusing if you've never attended before as the shows are in all sorts of different place, from hotel rooms and marquees to massive conference centers. They have different opening times, and some are just for dealers and are not open to the general public, so it's important to do your research before you go.

Don't let the complexity of it put you off though, you'll have a brilliant time! A visit to the Tucson Convention and Visitors Bureau website will help you to organise your trip. Here you'll find a wealth of information about the shows, you can also find information about other Tucson attractions too if you want to take a little time out from gem and rock shows! Don't forget to book your accomodation well in advance as hotels soon get booked up during this fortnight.

There are free shuttle buses between the shows, so you can take advantage of a show offering free parking, then get the shuttle to visit other shows.

Gilsum Rock Swap & Mineral Show in beautiful Monadnock Region of southwestern NH at the Gilsum Elementary School grounds and features over seventy dealers and swappers offering minerals, gems and jewellery to swap or sell. 6,000 - 8,000 people from all over the U.S. attend the show each year. There are plenty of other things to do too such as mineral panning, rock climbing and there's also some great things to eat, from home made pies to a traditional New England ham and pea dinner or a full sit down Chicken Barbeque lunch.

There are pancakes available for breakfast each day, and throughout the day you can buy hotdogs and other snack foods. lemonade and baked goods from the bake sale. There's a great book sale too where you can pick up a bargain.

The show runs from 8AM to 6PM on Saturday and 8AM to 4PM on Sunday. The show is important to the local community event and each year over 60 local people volunteer their time at the show, and another 40 volunteers bake home made beans and pies for Ham and Bean Supper. Gilsum has a long history of mining minerals. Many mines operated until the 1940s, producing feldspar, mica and beryl. Most have now been abandoned but the Beauregard mine can still be visited by mineral clubs if booked in advance. You can purchase a map of the mine locations at the show, visiting the locations could be the perfect way to extend your holiday beyond the show. Admission to the show is free. All proceeds and donations go to youth recreation and community programs.