Anti-tax sentiment in Illinois is so intense that at times, local Illinois politicians have even found that they can jettison other political causes that politicians generally want to keep close to their hearts, and to their podiums at their rallies.

Illinois' public schools have long been beleaguered and wildly uneven in their quality; because their funding relies so heavily upon the local property taxes levied in each school district, the schools in poor districts tend to range from "challenged" to "ineffective" to "nonfunctioning," while schools in wealthier districts are bursting with amenities, special programs, and wide ranges of opportunities for students. And in the wake of the recession that began in 2008, the schools' situation was becoming even more dire, because the value of local properties was falling, bringing property tax revenues down as well. The state's education system has long been acknowledged to be a huge problem, and in general Illinois politicians have long stood behind the idea that something must be done on the state level to address the problem. In 2008, they received a particular spur to take action from a report on the performance of Illinois' educational system in the previous year.

It was described as providing both good news and bad news on the education front. It showed that while Illinois students' scores on the ACT college entrance exam were showing a small upward movement that year - in fact, they were the highest they had been since Illinois began requiring that high schoolers take the ACT test - it also showed that the achievement gap between black high school students' scores and white high school students' scores had been increasing as well. In fact, the improvement in the scores of the white students was behind most of the gains in the overall 2008 scores, and the gap between the scores of the black students and those of the white students continued to widen. White students who graduated in high school in the spring of 2008 scored, on average, 5.2 points higher than black students who also graduated that spring. In comparison, 2003 scores saw a difference of 4.5 points. The State School Superintendent, Christopher Koch, said that he was aware that the state's high schools were struggling with the issue, and that Illinois was working on the issue by requiring that some students attend summer school and undergo pre-testing before they enter high school.

The report provided the ideal fodder for the debate, long building in Illinois, over education reform, and specifically reform oriented toward achieving greater equity, or at least remedying some of the grossest inequities, in Illinois' schools. Many critics had long descried the state's reliance on local property taxes to fund education, because that system creates built-in disparities between the education that will be available in poorer school districts - where property values are lower and there are fewer property owners and more renters among the residents - and wealthier districts, where there are greater property values and more property owners. The plan was based, to some extent, on similar legislation passed in Michigan in 1994. It centralized education funding, taking on 57.3 percent of the funding for all the state's schools as a state budget expense, and was thought by many to have been a success in both saving taxpayer money and improving educational equity. The Michigan plan came under criticism, however, when it started experiencing economic troubles (which, for Michigan, happened sooner than for the rest of the country, given their reliance on an ailing United States automobile industry). One critic found that, ten years after Michigan embarked on its dramatic and ambitious education funding swap, its state budget is awash in red ink. Consequently, some schools in Michigan had been forced to close buildings, end programs, and cut staff.

A spokeswoman for Birmingham Public Schools, a suburban Detroit district annually ranked among the state's best, said, "The problem with this method of funding is it's dependent on sales tax and sin taxes and income tax, all of which become very unstable when the economy is down and that's what's happened in Michigan." An analysis from 2008 bore out critics' predictions: the annual school aid budget gap in Michigan was projected to reach $3.9 billion by 2017, because tax revenues won't be able to keep up with spending pressures.

It is very telling that one of the few pieces of education-related tax legislation to pass the Illinois legislature in the past decade was fueled essentially by anti-tax and anti-government sentiment. This sentiment appears to trump Illinoisans' feelings that something must be done on a statewide level to fix its long-ailing educational system. The property taxes that are at the heart of the educational funding debate - because they are what provide both the stability for and the inequity of the state's many school districts - have themselves been a subject of much debate. The stability of property taxes are a source of great benefit to many other public institutions than education - but the means of assessing them, and the frequency with which they are assessed, are a matter of ongoing debate and frustration in Illinois. The irony of this bill's provisions, of course - or at least two out of three of them, the two that concern connecting school funding to local property - is that they both reflect a conviction that has existed in the United States for decades, but that ceased to exist shortly after the introduction of this bill.

That is the conviction that property values in the United States will always continue to rise, and that properties developed will always sell. To anyone who has been paying any attention at all to the United States financial situation at any time after 2007, it is clear that both of these notions are groundless. The specter of the millions of Americans who are "upside down" in their mortgages - meaning that they now have more remaining to pay on their mortgage than their property is currently worth, so that even if they sold their home immediately they would still be in debt - is a grim one. If it could be made grimmer, it would be by imagining that all of these people had been denied the one financial relief brought on by the loss of property value - that their property taxes had also gone down, commensurate with the diminished value of their property. If they had been stuck paying not only the inflated value of their property but an inflated property tax to go with it - it would have been adding insult to injury, or actually just additional injury to injury. The bill's third provision also conjures up stark images of developers that fronted costs for the planning and construction of hundreds of homes, only to have most of those homes halted mid-construction as the demand for them dried up along with the available financing.

Thousands of such developments are drying up themselves in the United States today, and the unlucky buyers of the first few houses look out upon weed-filled house shells sitting in pools of mud. If these developers had also been enabled to advance the impact and transition fees but spread the cost out over ten years, and this program had begun in 2008, the state of Illinois would have ended up holding the bag for many millions of dollars in transition and impact fees as the homes did not, in fact, sell. This bill is a perfect example of the degree to which subjects such as tax policy and financial instruments, which would seem to be dry topics subject only to the laws of numbers and immutable fact, can actually be subject to beliefs bordering on articles of faith - not unlike the anti-tax sentiments underlying much of the rest of Illinois's tax policy history.