The laboratory also offers visiting scientific researchers access to unique equipment in their state-of-the-art facilities, and onsite experts are available to help these researchers make the most use of the facilities. Collaboration with world-renowned PNNL scientists and engineers can really help them to advance their scientific research and get their results published.There is a Guest House on the campus with 81 private rooms that are both comfortable, and affordable. The Guest House is within very easy walking distance of most of the research facilities. There are many facilities available. The New Bioproducts, Sciences, and Engineering Laboratory is a joint project between Washing State University and PNNL and is based within the grounds of the University. This facility is used to develop technology for converting low-value agricultural byproducts and residues into value-added chemicals for products such as pharmaceuticals and solvents. The Marine Sciences Laboratory is located on Sequim Bay in the Puget Sound. This facility is for the research of ocean processes and ecology, ecotoxicology and analytical chemistry. The William R. Wiley Environmental Molecular Sciences Laboratory is often utilised by researchers from all over the world. This lab focuses on developing a molecular-level understanding of the physical, chemical, and biological processes that underlie important environmental issues. PNNL operates the DOE RAF for atmospheric scientists to carry out airborne research. The Electricity Infrastructure Operations Center uses high tech computation equipment and techniques to develop new techniques to help manage the electricity grid. The Radiochemical Process Laboratory is funded by the DOE and is involved in developing new processes for environmental clean-up and the beneficial use of radioactive materials. The Applied Process Engineering Laboratory sponsored in part by PNNL is an eastern Washington technology business startup user facility providing engineering- and manufacturing-scale space and laboratories and equipment for new product development. PNNL staff are also available for consultation. There are also other facilities available for researchers such a wind tunnel, a Meteorological Station , and a Radiological Calibration and Irradiation Facility. 