If you have information about the whereabouts of a child support evader or any attempts hide financial assets or employment by a person who owes child support, you can contact the Indiana Child Support Bureau anonymous tip line at 1-866-926-8332r send an email to WantedTips@fssa.state.in.us. You can request a review of your child support order by making a written request for review to the local prosecutor's office that is charged with managing your case. During the review process, both parents may be required to provide information to assist with the evaluation. The review will determine whether the amount of child support will increase, decrease, or remain unchanged. These days, income withholding is the preferred method of child support collection in most states. This method allows the non-custodial parent employer to automatically deduct child support payments from his or her paycheck just as income taxes are deducted. These funds are then sent directly to the state child support collections agency for disbursement to the custodial parent. f a non-custodial owes past-due child support payments, the state child support collection agency may intercept other sources of income, such as tax refunds, lottery winnings, unemployment funds, or workerscompensation payments to repay the debt.

The amount intercepted will be no more than the amount of delinquent support owed. When a non-custodial parent owes past due child support payments, the state child support agency may report this delinquency to the consumer credit bureaus that track credit records. This can affect the debtor ability to secure a loan, obtain employment, or establish a new credit card. According to the child support laws in most states, the state child support agency can place a lien on certain types of real property owned by the non-custodial parent such as his or her house or car. This lien will prevent the non-custodial parent from selling the property until all the debt is paid. In addition, some states allow the child support agency to seize the property as payment for past due child support payments. In setting up a child support order, the court will determine the amount of money to be paid by the non-custodial parent each month.

This amount will be based upon the pre-established child support guidelines that are designated by each state. These guidelines take into consideration such factors as the financial needs of the child, the custodial situation, and the economic resources of both parents. If the child is in foster care, the court order may determine that both parents are bound to pay child support. Most states also require that health insurance coverage be provided for children; therefore the court order for child support may also include a provision outlining the medical support for the children. The Hoosier Works Card is a commercial debit account (CDA) card that can be used by custodial parents to receive child support payments. It is available as part of a pilot program for families living in Allen County, Marion County, and Vanderburgh County.

With this card, child support payments are electronically distributed directly into your Hoosier Works Card CDA account. The card can then be used just like any other debit card wherever MasterCard debit cards are accepted. Indiana Child Support Bureau maintains an automated phone line that can be used to access child support payment information. This information is available via Indiana Kids Line, 24 hours a day, 7 days per week at 1-800-840-8757 or locally at 317-233-5437. If you wish to receive an official print out of your child support information, you can contact your local county clerk office. You can also access child support payment history information at:http://www.in.gov.This website allows both custodial and non-custodial parents to view the last five payments posted to his or her case. Custodial parents residing in Marion, Allen and Vanderburgh counties have the option of receiving their child support payments by check, direct deposit, or on the Hoosier Works MasterCard, which is a commercial debit account card (CDA). If you reside in one of these counties, talk with your caseworker to decide which option will work best for you.

Child support is distributed in all other counties by check.

Most child support court orders will allow a non-custodial parent to be incarcerated (put in jail) if they fail to obey the law of paying child support. A non-custodial parent can be sentenced to jail time for up to six months. While incarcerated, the parents are still responsible for the amount due and future payments.