These memorable words that have echoed down the centuries are taken from the American Declaration of Independence that is the nation's political bible . Yet is it really true of America where African Americans and Hispanics are still institutionalized, and women are only just recently free? Let's analyze the document line-by-line. For it is in essence more a description of what things will be like when all people are finally equal.

, John Adams served on the committee that drafted the Declaration of Independence, and was a main driver advocating its acceptance. His vision named George Washington Commander of the Continental Army at the Second Continental Congress. He was also a member of the negotiating team that saw the Treaty of Paris officially end the American Revolution (although by then they had already won the battle). He was to became the first Vice President of the United States, and later its 2nd President. Benjamin Franklin Benjamin Franklin was already revered as elder statesman by the time the Revolution and the subsequent Constitutional Convention came around. He was a delegate to the Second Continental Congress. Thus he was an automatic member of the Committee of Five appointed to draft the Declaration of Independence.

He also played a central role in arranging French support during the American Revolution, and in negotiating the Treaty of Paris that ended the war.

In 1971 the Supreme Court heard arguments in the classic case of Reed v. Reed, in which Sally Reed (the wife) challenged the Idaho law that presumed that her estranged husband should be automatically the executor of the estate of their son (who had died without nominating one). Fundamentally, she disagreed that "males must be preferred to females" in choosing estate administrators as was stated in that law. In an opinion written by Chief Justice Warren E. Burger t he Supreme Court declared that the Fourteenth Amendment did indeed prohibit such unequal treatment on the basis of sex.

This was the first US Supreme Court decision to apply the Fourteenth Amendment's equal protection clause to gender or sexual distinctions, and so Sally Reed won more than just her individual case. Later decisions have sharpened the application of the Fourteenth Amendment to sex discrimination. All-in-all it took a Century for a Court decision to enforce a fundamental right enshrined in law.

The Way Forward All men are born equal ... all people were created to be free ... we have inalienable rights to the pursuit of life, liberty hand happiness ... I have a dream. Fine words indeed, but without actions they remain but empty shells. What then is the true import of the Declaration of Independence and the the words all men are created equal ?

That God created us equal in God's mind? Certainly this is possible theologically, although there is little hard evidence for this. But then He also wills us to be sinless, and that certainly is not the empirical case either. Perhaps the truth is that, while we were created to be equal, it our task as individuals and a society to make God's dream come true.