General Motors also had an exhibit entitled 'Futurama' which was designed by Norman Bel Geddes, an industrial and theatrical designer.His ideas of how the future would be have actually turned out the be surprisingly accurate. Another exhibit, 'Democracity' depicted business and cultural centers enveloped by bedroom communities, another prediction that came largely true. Westinghouse Corporation also came up with an idea for the World's Fair to develop a time capsule to be opened fifty centuries after being buried. A selection committee chose the contents. The time capsule was bullet-shaped made from Cupaloy, an alloy of tempered copper, chromium and silver. Inside was an airtight glass envelope that held the contents. The contents of the time capsule were picked to represent American life in 1939. The contents were extensive and included newsreels, microfilm essays on art, news and literature, textiles and material including 75 fabrics, plastics, metals and seeds. So how will people in fifty centuries know how to find the time capsule? Well this has been well thought through. There have been 3000 copies of The Book of Record printed in 1938 on permanent paper with special ink which describes the latitude and longitude of the capsule's burying place. These book have been stored in libraries, museums and monasteries all over the world. The book provides clues for the discoverers and it also makes some other requests, asking that the contents be translated into new languages as new ones supersede it. There are also guides to making and using instruments to help with the locating of the capsule bu electromagnet methods.There is also a very clever key to the English language that would help archaeologists and linguists of the future decipher the book should knowledge of the English language be lost by that time. Dumpling House is a great Northern Chinese cafe and restaurant specializing in dumplings. There are over fifty different types of dumpling to choose from. The restaurant is in a quiet secluded spot away from the noise of Main Street and the prices are very reasonable too. The Quaker Meeting house on Northern Boulevard is the oldest house of worship in New York City and has been used continuously since 1694. There are many other points of historical and cultural significance in Flushing. Bowne House is called the birthplace of Religious Freedom in America. The mall was made by merging and repositioning two existing buildings in Downtown Flushing. They gave the entire mall a bright multicoloured colour scheme to give a vibrant and playful atmosphere to encourage younger people to visit. The first building, eShops, is made up of individual retail outlets. There are corridors creating a circular path around the mall There is also an interior courtyard with skylights, creating a double-height atrium. The second building, Flushing Marketplace,features brick clad columns and beams covered in aged wood. There are also fountains and skylights. In the Marketplace you'll find various Asian-American clothing designers and importers, emerging technology companies and the first location of Caf JoJo. 