Well, that's precisely what you may be reading (Obituary) if you don't have anti-virus software on your computer. There is only one remedy - immediately purchase and install a quality security product! Now! Crude as it may seem, performing any kind of computing on a computer that has contact with the outside world (blue-tooth, internet connection, floppy disks, network, anything) is equivalent to not practicing safe sex. As far as your computer is goes, it could be just as fatal too. Maybe you are one of the lucky ones that's never had a problem with worm viruses. If you are, it's kind of like playing Russian Roulette, and it's simply a matter of time before the loaded chamber reaches the breach. I well remember one day several years ago when I was made aware of a nasty worm virus that was about to launch internationally. I even set about calling all my clients and warning them to change the computer system date for the next day just so as to avoid any risk of contamination. Guess what I didn't do myself - right! I forgot to advance or retard my date and my machine was zapped big time, right there in front of my eyes. It even took out my electronic Lotus diary, and that was the worst part because I had no hard copy or back up. My meetings for a busy time ahead were toast, history, and I suffered a major contraction of income simply because I did not think through the worst case scenarios. In some ways I suppose I was lucky if only because I had learned one of life's biggest lessons the real hard way. There seem to be many folk around the world who are either incredibly arrogant or very bored, with little or nothing to do. Perhaps they are angry, or villainous or even uncaring - could be all three. These "people" (let's be kind) go out of their way to create viruses which they then unleash on the innocent world. But you need to be aware of this, as it is real important - your responsibilities are not complete just because you've installed anti-virus software. You have to update the virus definitions and periodically renew the licensed software too. New viruses are released continually and if you do not perform regular updates, you will be left just as vulnerable as before, because you will not be protected from the newer, often more dangerous viruses. Computer worms or viruses are one of the greatest threats to your system. Using a quality product such as Kaspersky, Norton Antivirus or MacAfee Antivirus is as vital for your computer's well being as loading the correct software and having the best hardware. So, what is a computer virus? Essentially, a virus is a seemingly insignificant piece of software which is designed to enter your computer hardware or memory and takeover the operating of your computer, obviously without your knowledge or consent. Many viruses are benign, in that they cause no damage other than annoying the operator. But some viruses cause minor damage or even embarrassment, especially those that link to porn sites and create unwanted havoc. The more sophisticated malware can electronically destroy a computer, erase files or disk drives, or intercept and send sensitive data to third parties without your knowledge or agreement. Viruses are free-travelers as they attach themselves and spread through now-infected emails, documents and programs. A virus has to be executed to be "triggered". Sometimes this is as simple as opening and running an attachment to an email message. Some of the newer viruses can be inserted into your system via HTML email messages. All very sinister, and getting more and more sophisticated as the anti-virus software producers develop their protective technology. Regard the author or creator of a malicious virus as nothing more or less than a virtual crook or thug, because that is precisely what they are! They of course will see themselves as very clever and smart. As these relatively small pieces of code get to work on your system, they can do simple things like display an annoying message, or more complicated tasks such as re-mailing themselves to everyone on your contact list - these are more properly referred to as "worms" because of the way they replicate. In the worst cases, viruses can enable hackers to remotely control your system - known as a "Trojan Horse" - and some can delete data or re-format your hard drive. None of us wants to knowingly receive a virus or a worm, because of the damage they can inflict. They simply have to be stopped before they do any damage or replicate themselves. In a nutshell, that's why you need to install anti-virus software and why you must keep the virus definitions up to date. Descriptions of Recent Common Viruses: SirCam Code Red Worm Useful Information: Back Up - This is the First Commandment when it comes to matters computing. Get used to it and be disciplined about it. Remember, you cannot recover from a crash if you have nothing to restore to your computer! Backing up your computer is a vital element of your security system integrity. Regular backups are critical for keeping your system secure. If your computer is violated and damaged by a virus or an intruder you have a way to recover. Remember to check your backups from time to time- do this by simulating a full system restore. Consider installing Outlook Security Patch, if you run Outlook and you want to protect your computer. Other Products - Norton Antivirus You need antivirus protection for your computer. Norton Antivirus is one of the industry standards, but by no means the only one. Kaspersky Lab is another fine product and fully automated too. Yet another p roduct is ZoneAlarm Pro. In fact ZoneAlarm Pro is quite possibly the best 'firewall' for personal home use. Ultimately, virus protection is up to you and you alone. I hope I have scared you sufficiently, and that you want have to attend a sad farewell if your computer receives an unwanted virus or worm. Tron - The Malicious One Tron is a devious hide and seek game. And the original ThinkGeek Annoy-a- tron would count for nothing against an army of Snowbots , but it is very effective at annoying that smart Alec in the sales department or your arch enemy down the passage. It consists of an embedded magnet and has an ultra-thin design for easy hiding. The Annoy-a-tron can be placed wherever you like, just choose one of the three sound choices (2 kHz, 12 kHz, or alternating) and switch on after placing it in a clever hiding spot. Now let the fun begin. Our Annoy-a-tron emits a short, but very annoying beep every few minutes - hence the name. Your unsuspecting victim will have a hard time pinpointing the location of the sound, because the beeps will vary in intervals ranging from 1 to 7 minutes. The 2kHz sound is irritating enough, but if you really really want to drive the victim mad, select the 12 kHz sound and enjoy the ride. The higher frequency and slight 'electronic noise' built into that sound byte will reduce a full-grown Admin wonder where his sanity is, never mind his documents! It's as simple as 123: Turn on. Hide it. Muahahaha... Assuming you have followed the above, and found a suitable hiding location for the Annoy-a-tron, rest assured that it will do its part to drive your co-workers slowly mad with its short and seemingly random beeps. The best part is that when someone does locate the Annoy-a-tron, they're really not going to know what it is - which is almost as much fun as watching them search for it. Muahaha. Our Annoy-a-tron requires just one CR2032 battery which is included. It measures approximately: 2.5" x 1.25" x .3". It will run for 3 to 4 weeks on a single battery, that is if it isn't detected and destroyed! Some Basic Protocol: Yes, we realize you could buy a dozen and hide them all inside someone's office (oh, did we say that out loud?). It will all be a bit too obvious and fingers will point your way. We'll leave it up to you to determine who qualifies, but p lease reserve the use of the Annoy-a-tron for truly deserving subjects. Hiding Tron inside food is plain stupid (the chemicals in a burrito are known to be quite destructive to electrical components). You should probably avoid the area near your bosses office as this could prove a career-limiting move. Not convinced of the Annoy-a-tron's evil powers? You are not a nerd then. Here's one very satisfied customer and be enlightened: Dear Fellow Thinkgeeks Yo, I recently acquired my "Annoy-A-Trons" from your web site. Yes, I acquired two, thinking that perhaps two devices might be necessary to truly splinter the minds of my about-to-be-ex friends and co-workers. Boy, did I underestimate this powerful amazing gadget. Once a mild-mannered colleague, I watched this simple device transform this man into a spitting, cussing, paranoid lunatic. For example, this raving lunatic ordered all of the staff he supervises (no small number) to locate the source of the dread beeping as a top priority- since they were in on the prank, they didn't help. The target waited, white-knuckles gripping the edge of his desk, anticipating the next beep. He even set a timer on his computer to track the duration between beeps, but with our sophisticated Tron, it didn't help. The best so far was, when nearly bursting that vein on his temple, he shouted: "That beep has been F***ing with me all day and I'm going to seek and destroy it. Wait till I get my hands on the idiot behind it!" He wanted to call out the facilities department to schedule a maintenance worker to investigate. But, he decided that "they" might be doing air-quality testing in the building. Awesome, this beep must be some device in the ducts detecting dangerous levels of asbestos in the air. Or could it be Radon? Aerosolized mercury? Legionella spores? What does the beep mean? Is it a warning? It sounds urgent, doesn't it? It's telling us to do something. But what? Replace a battery? Call the authorities? Evacuate the premises? Scrub ourselves with disinfectant and put on haz-mat suits and call our families to give them our tearful goodbyes? It will not be too long before he will start to take things apart. He will systematically dismantle every electrical devices in our office. But this is merely replicating the precise metaphor for what is happening to his psyche - he's going off his rocker!. This all goes to illustrate just what a thin and fragile thread divides insanity from its opposite - just like the tightrope walker, up there one minute, splat the next! I really have to thank you all for this tiny little device, because it helped me break a co-worker's equilibrium. From the bottom of my heart, I thank you for the sinfully pleasurable schadenfreude. With my very best to you, John Seattle, WA P S - Fast forward - It was entirely coincidental I assure you, but I've taken over Mad Max's job. But there's no truth in the rumor that I'm searching every bag and briefcase as the staff enter and leave!