The terrain of majority of Southern Africa is varied and made up of different forms of land. The variety ranges from forest and grasslands to deserts. Another peculiar factor about South Africa is that the region has both low-lying coastal areas, and mountains. Diversity in the forms of land in the region allows diversity in natural resources and creatures that can be found in the country.

In terms of the availability of natural resources with the territorial jurisdiction of the country, the region has the world's largest resources of platinum and other platinum group elements. The mineral deposits of the region also include chromium, cobalt and vanadium. There is also a significant amount of uranium, gold, titanium, iron and diamonds which can be mined from the lands of South Africa.

After the Second World War, South Africa is a state which emerged from the Allied victory with its national honor and prestige enhanced. It can be said that South Africall had indeed fought tirelessly for the Western Allies in order to advance the interest of their side. During the time that the struggle of Third World states against colonialism had still not taken centre stage, the standing of South Africa in the international community was already rising. Prime Minister Smuts, in May 1945 represented the state of South Africa before the United Nations for the drafting of the UN Charter.

The event was held in San Francisco, United States. Just like what he did in the year 1919, Smuts urged and tried to persuade the delegates to create a powerful international body for the purpose of preservation of peace. Smuts was really determined that the United Nations, unlike the League of Nations would have teeth. He meant that the United Nations should be honored and acknowledged by the states a a world government which could produce rules that would actually be obeyed by state leaders upon ratification. Smuts has also signed the Paris Peace Treaty, resolving the peace in most European countries, thus becoming the only signatory of both the treaty ending the First World War, and that ending the Second. This fact showed how the country advocated world peace and peaceful coexistence among nations and states.

However, the internal political struggles of the country in the disgruntled and essentially impoverished Afrikaner community and social groups would soon rise to the fore leading to the defeat of Smuts at the polls in the national elections of 1948. Only whites and not colored could vote then. However, there had been propositions that the colored be allowed to vote for the elections since the state leaders should also be representing this considerable majority of the population. This began the road to South Africa's eventual isolation from a world that would no longer tolerate any forms of political discrimination or differentiation based on race only.

Under the South African Constitution, the President is both head of state and head of government. The president in the state will have powers vested on him which would allow him to run the government, as well as represent the country in international meetings. President Thabo Mbeki was then unamimously elected by the National Assembly on 16 June1999 to become the president of South Africa. Jacob Zuma is designated then to become the Executive Deputy President. There are also cabinet ministers to perform specific functions, dependent on the designated departnment.

Cabinet Ministers are appointed by the incumbent President. The government of South Africa also places a very important role to the legislative branch. The legislature of the state is bicameral. The bicameral Parliament of South Africa consists of the National Assembly (400 seats; members of which are elected by popular vote under a system of proportional representation to serve five-year terms) and the National Council of Provinces (90 seats, 10 members of which are elected by each of the nine provincial legislatures for five-year terms). Half of the members of the National Assembly of South Africa are chosen from nationwide party lists. The other half of the National Assembly is chosen from party lists for each province.

Being a new government, established only in the last two decades, there are still several reforms being advocated by state leaders and politicians for the betterment of South African government. Electoral reform is under consideration, with smaller multi-member constitutencies being introduced in order to create a more effective and efficient way of holding the election process. Following the implementation of the new constitution last 3 February 1997 the National Council of Provinces has then replaced the former Senate with essentially no change in membership and party affiliations, although the new institution's responsibilities have been subject to certain changes; with the body now having special powers to protect regional interests, including the safeguarding of cultural and linguistic traditions among ethnic minorities. In every government, the judicial branch is also an important sector of the government because it is the branch which provides for the interpretation of laws when governmental issues arise. The third arm of the central government is an independent judiciary. The Constitutional Court is the highest court in South Africa. The Constitutional Court is designated for interpreting and deciding constitutional issues while the Supreme Court of Appeal is the highest court for nonconstitutional matters. Most cases are tried and heard in the extensive system of High Courts and Magistrates Courts.

The constitution of South Africa has a section for the bill of rights which provides for due process including the right to a fair, public trial within a reasonable time of being charged and the right to appeal to a higher court. The bill of rights, which is common to most countries aims for the protection of the fundamental rights of the citizens and also guarantees fundamental political and social rights of South Africa's citizens. The legal system based on Roman-Dutch law and English common law; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations.

The law of South Africa, and not just the language per se is undeniably influenced by the Dutch nation.