The sackbut/trombone was mainly first used as a church instrument because of its timbre that blend well with voices, and its slides that has the ability to make subtle changes in tuning needed for the different church modes and sounds. The trombone was used sparingly in orchestras until the late Romantic period probably because of its strong association with church music. When it appeared in the concert hall, it was often used to evoke religion, mortality, or the supernatural. Examples are Beethoven's Symphony No. 5, Rimsky-Korsakov's Russian Easter Overture, the appearance of the ghost in Mozart's Don Giovanni, and Weber's Der Freischutz, another opera with supernatural themes. When the trombone was replaced by an organ to be used in church music, it became a full member of the orchestra and a key instrument in many kinds of bands-- marching and jazz. The beginning of trombones solo's repertoire and chamber literature was in the Classical Era in Austria, where composers like Georg Christoph, Leopold Mozart, Wagenseil, Johann Ernst Eberlin and Johann Albrechtsberger were featuring the instrument in partnership with a voice. Many times Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and Joseph Haydn used the trombones in their sacred works, including two extended duets with Mozart's voice, the best known being in the Tuba Mirum of his Requiem. In 1807, Joachim Nicolas Eggert 1, the Swedish composer, first use the trombone in a symphony in the Symphony in E♭, although he usually credited its introduction to Ludwig van Beethoven, who used it in the last movement of his Symphony No. 5 in C minor (1808). He also used trombones in his Symphony No. 6 in F major ("Pastoral") and Symphony No. 9 ("Choral"). Today, the trombone can be commonly found in: wind ensembles/concert bands marching bands symphony orchestras brass bands military bands choirs and many more It can also be a part of smaller groups like: brass quintets quartets, or trios, or trombone trios, quartets, or choirs, although the trombone choir's size can vary greatly from 5 or 6 to 20 or more members. Trombones are also common in: swing jazz salsa with Jimmy Bosch rock with Bill Reichenbach and James Pankow as famous examples R&B ska with Don Drummond However, it is in jazz and swing music that trombone has arguably made the greatest advances since the 20th century. The famous artists in this generation are Tommy Dorsey, Ray Anderson, Curtis Fuller, Delfeayo Marsalis, Kid Ory , Wycliffe Gordon, J. J. Johnson, Conrad Herwig, Glenn Miller, Frank Rosolino, and a lot more. The new composers began giving a level of importance back to the trombone in solo and chamber music in the second half of the century. Edgard Varese's Octandre, Paul Hindemith's Sonata and Luciano Berio's Sequenza V paved the way for lesser-known composers to build a wider repertoire. For the lower range - the slide's significant movement is required between positions, which will become more exaggerated on lower pitched trombones. For higher notes - the trombonist only needs to use the slide's first four positions because the partials are closer together allowing higher notes to be played in alternate positions. The trombone is one of the few wind instruments that has the ability to produce a true glissando by moving the slide without interrupting the airflow that is due to the slide's continuous variation. The Bass Trombone is developed from the 19th century tenor bass trombone and its length is identical to the 9' B flat tenor trombone. It has a wider bore in the production of a fuller, weightier tone in the low register and one or two valves which, when engaged, lower the key of the instrument to 12' F, which will allow the player to bridge the gap between the 1st partial (fundamental) with the slide in 1st or closed position and the 2nd partial with the slide fully extended in 7th position. In the 19th and early 20th century, the modern bass trombones examples were sometimes made with a valve attachment in E rather than in F. Generally, bass trombone's bore sizes are slightly larger compare to those of the largest tenor trombones. The typical specifications are: a bore size of 0.562" in the slide 0.580" through the valve attachment tubing with a bell from 9" to 10.5" in diameter The valves configuration falls into one of these three categories on the modern bass trombone: A simple B flat/F instrument of larger dimensions than the B flat/F tenor trombone equipped with one valve; A B flat/F instrument equipped with a second dependent valve relying on the first to be engaged before deploying the ancillary tubing; A B flat/F instrument equipped with a second independent or in-line valve acting independently from the first that may lower the pitch to G or G flat individually, or to E flat or D if combined with the first valve. Usually, there is one bass trombone in a standard symphony orchestra although there are some works that require for two. Bass trombone can also be seen in military bands, jazz bands, wind ensembles, brass bands, and a variety of brass groups. Commonly, the bass trombone is played by the 3rd or 4th trombonist in a trombone section, wherein the first 2 or 3 parts are for tenor and possibly alto trombones. TENOR TROMB ON E In the early 19th century, the tenor trombone's distinctive form was popularized in France, which is called the buccin. It featured a tenor trombone slide and a bell ending in a zoomorphic (dragon or serpent) head. In 1824, Hector Berlioz wrote for the buccin in his Messe solennelle. The fundamental note of tenor trombone is B flat ,and usually, it is treated as a non-transposing instrument . The trombone's simplest form has no crooks, valves, and keys used in lowering the pitch by a specific interval; thus, trombonists use 7 chromatic slide positions, wherein each of which progressively increases the air column's length that lowers the pitch. The F attachment This instrument was known as the tenorbass trombone, since it was a tenor trombone in B flat with the bore and bell dimensions of a bass trombone. It was used to play both tenor and bass trombone parts. During the late 1830s, the German instrument maker Christian Friedrich Sattler developed the F attachment in an instrument and it was patented in 1839. When the older German E flat and F bass trombones had fallen out of favor by orchestral trombonists and replaced by a B flat tenor trombone with a wide bore and large bell proportions, the F attachment gained its popularity. Tenor trombone with a traditional wrap F attachment Many of modern tenor trombones has an extra attachment of tubing of about 3 ft or 1m in length. This lowers the fundamental pitch from B flat to F. Tubing has two different forms: 1. The Open Wrap - This sticks out past the main tuning slide and has only one curve in it. 2. The Traditional Wrap - This is curved and fits inside the main tuning slide that made it also known as closed wrap. The open wrap F attachment was conceived because when there is a sharp bend in the tubing, the tone of the trombone becomes "drier." The F attachment can be engaged when you use a trigger or valve. Typically, this type of trombone is built with a larger bore size (0.525" or 0.547") and is known as a B flat/F trombone, F-attachment trombone, or trigger trombone. If the trombones don't have this feature, they have become known as straight trombones. CONTRABASS TROMBONE Contrabass trombone in B flat/F Usually, the contrabass trombone is pitched in 12' F-- a perfect fourth lower compare to the modern tenor or bass trombone, which has undergone through different changes in its history. Its first incarnation was in 24' F during the Renaissance; one octave below the modern pitch of 12' F, or 18' B flat. Contrabass was built as an oversized bass trombone with a long slide and extension handle to be able to reach the lower positions during the Renaissance. Towards the end of this period, the double slide innovation, in which the slide is wound back on itself producing four tubes, took place and was also applied to the bass and contrabass trombones. During the 19th century, the contrabass trombone enjoyed its revival and was constructed according to the double slide principle. The Italian valved contrabass instrument (the "Cimbasso") has become increasingly used in film scores in recent years. Contrabass Trombone in F In 1921, a German inspector of orchestras and bass trombonist from Berlin Ernst Dehmel patented a new design of contrabass trombone that utilizes the old German military band bass trombone in F being equipped with two independent rotary valves to replace the handle required on the long slide and to fill in the missing notes between the first partial (fundamental) in closed position and the second partial with the slide fully extended. The contrabass trombone's slide's bore sizes are typically in the 0.567" to 0.635" range. And the most common sizes in F are between 0.567" and 0.580." Usually, the larger sizes are reserved for the contrabass trombone in low B flat. Typically, the bell diameter is 10"-11." The use of a contrabass trombone almost always requires the addition of a fourth trombonist to the trombone section. If in the past, the parts for the instrument were sometimes played on a tuba or, more recently, a bass trombone,nowadays it is already considered unacceptable, at least in professional settings. Although in most opera house orchestras and some symphony orchestras require the contrabass trombone to be doubled by a bass trombonist. ALTO TROMBONE E flat alto trombone by Arno Windisch The alto trombone is pitched in E flat or F, a perfect 4th or 5th higher compare to the tenor trombone. Commonly, it was used from the 16th to the 18th centuries as the highest voice in the brass choir, although it declined its popularity from the early 19th century, when the trumpet acquired valves and the trombones became an established section in the symphony orchestra. The alto trombone was unfashionable from the mid-19th century to the late 20th, and has only recently enjoyed its revival. The alto's tone is more brilliant as compared to the tenor or bass trombone. Its bore is similar to that of a small tenor trombone - which is usually around 0.450"-0.500", with a 6.5" or 7" bell, and the E flat alto trombone (excluding fundamentals or valve attachments) is ranging from A2 to B flat5, although typically, it is not scored any higher than F5. Primarily, the alto trombone is used in: choral orchestral operatic settings However, in Vienna in the 18th century, it has enjoyed as a solo instrument. Nowadays, professional orchestral tenor trombonists are expected to play the alto trombone and the famous works scored for this instrument are: Mozart masses such as The Great Mass in C minor, Requiem, Don Giovanni and Die Zauberfl te, Haydn's Die Sch pfung and Die Jahreszeiten Beethoven's Symphonies Nos. 5, 6 & 9 and Missa Solemnis , Schubert's Symphonies Nos. 7, 8 & 9, Mass No. 5 in A flat and Mass No. 6 in E flat Berlioz' Symphonie Fantastique, Mendelssohn's Symphony No. 2 "Lobgesang", Symphony No. 5 "Die Reformation", Elijah, incidental music to A Midsummer Night's Dream and Ruy Blas Schumann's Symphonies 1, 2, 3 & 4, Brahms' Symphonies 1, 2, 3 & 4, Akademische Festouvert re, Tragische Ouvert re, and Ein deutsches Requiem 20th century works such as Schoenberg's mammoth cantata Gurrelieder (scored for a section of 7 trombones that includes alto and contrabass), Berg's Three Pieces for Orchestra and Britten's The Burning Fiery Furnace. SOPRANO TROMBONE It appears to have been created in the late 17th century, from which the earliest surviving examples date. It was used in German-speaking countries to play the treble part in chorales, and this tradition survives in the Moravian trombone choir at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. The soprano trombone is usually pitched in B flat with an octave above the tenor, a bore size in between 0.450" and 0.470," and a trumpet-sized bell. During the 20th century, some manufacturers made soprano trombones as doubling instruments for jazz cornet players, dubbing them slide cornets, or as a novelty, yet the instrument has never been widely used or enjoyed much popularity. It rather lacks its own character and historically had little validity as it was easily replaced by the cornet or woodwind instruments and the short shifts make it difficult to play in tune. Soprano trombone slides being so short, there are often only six positions on the slide rather than seven. The range of the B flat soprano trombone is E3 to C6, though it is not usually written higher than B flat5. SOPRANINO AND PICCOLO TROMBONES As compared to the soprano, the sopranino and piccolo trombones are even smaller and higher instruments and aside from that, they are as well extremely rare. Sopranino and piccolo are pitched in high E flat and B flat respectively, one octave above the alto and soprano trombones. Their bore sizes vary between 0.430" and 0.400" respectively, with bells approximately 4" in diameter. Primarily, they are played by trumpeters, because of their very high pitch and their use of trumpet mouthpieces, The range of the E flat sopranino trombone is A4 to E flat6; that of the B flat piccolo trombone is E4 to F7. SUPERBONE The most popular valve-slide trombone combination today is the superbone, which achieved fame and popularity through the influence of jazz musician Maynard Ferguson, who used it in his band. The Superbone has a slide on the outside of the valves which locks, meaning its use is optional, and the player can play the Superbone valves with either hand.This is the unusual variation of the trombone that has both a slide and valves. The different types of valve-slide trombone hybrid combinations were first manufactured in the early 20th century.The jazz trombonist and reedist Brad Gowans-- which featured a slide on the inside on the valves which did not lock- invented one of the best known early types of the valide trombone, which force the trombonist to actively use his both hands. The sound of a trombone is ideal for marches, fanfares, and solemn processionals due to its long-standing association with certain types of music. Yet, you can also have it if you want a jazzy sound. Trombones have a bright, brassy timbre that can easily be heard even if you are outdoors or in a large ensemble. Now, if you are looking for unusual effects, remember that short glissandos are a trombone specialty. A short glissando that stays within the range of a single (seventh-to-first-position) partial can even very easy for inexperienced trombonists. There are as well several different kinds of mutes available that can give timbres variations , where some are very popular for jazz, and some are also capable of ear-catching effects like the plunger-mute "wah". It is better not to write long passages of very fast notes and even short passages of very fast notes are not advisable in some keys, due to the realities of changing notes with a slide, the trombone is not as agile compare to other instruments. Be aware that slurring smoothly is more difficult for trombone than for valved brass. 