Many of today's big businesses started out in the home. If you have an idea or a skill to sell then starting your business in your own home without the overheads of an office or premises can be a good idea. Be very wary of advertisements that simply state you can earn money rather than specifying any particular skills you will need. Unskilled working from home job opportunities are few and far between, lets face it, most people would love to work from home, so these frequent advertisements you see on lamp posts and the sides of cars are often part of a pyramid selling scheme, usually selling the same 'get rich quick' scheme to others. Of course not all working from home opportunities are fraudulent, but you must be very careful. Never give any money upfront unless you are 100% certain the scheme is legitimate. Do your research, search for the company name or the wording of the advertisement online and see if anything comes up. If it's a scam you are likely to find other people complaining about it. Ask plenty of questions. A legitimate company will welcome your questions. If you feel they are avoiding answering your queries, then it's time to get suspicious. For many people the thought of selling can be a bit daunting, a bit of a challenge. Perhaps you are afraid of failure, of not being any good at it? Perhaps you are worried about being seen as being pushy? Especially when you're trying to sell to people you know and care about? Do you secretly not have faith in the products you're selling and worry that they may not meet the expectations of your customers? If you don't have confidence in the products you're selling, then you're selling the wrong product. How can you convince someone of the benefits of owning a particular item if you don't actually believe it yourself? Of course some people can sell anything to anyone, they simply love selling and don't care what the product is, but for most of us, selling is a hundred times easier if we actually do believe in the products and use them ourselves. There are so many different party plan products to sell, there is bound to be one you love. If you are unhappy with the products you are selling, then change; make the extra effort to find something you are comfortable with selling. You shouldn't feel like you are imposing on your friends, family or customers in general. You're filling a need that you truly believe they have. You're giving them a good time, and you're not pressuring them to buy anything. If you do feel you are imposing then a good technique is to focus mainly on providing a great party and see the selling as almost secondary. Your guests will have a great time, and people having a great time will actually be more likely to buy something too! You can have games, offer refreshments and run competitions with prizes. Give your guests a memorable night and they'll remember you and your products. They will also want to come to another party, and may well bring their friends too. You won't know if you're good at selling until you give it a go. You are unlikely to have to sign any long term contract for a party plan selling job, so it's definitely worth giving it a go. People instinctively talk about the benefits of things they like. We've all recommended products, restaurants or books to our friends and family, so if you love the products you're selling then that is half the battle won. All you have to do is tell your guests why you love it so much. Crafters and h obbyists will find the Internet a god-send for selling their unique products to a much wider audience at a low cost. You can sell items on your own website, or through websites such as eBay or Etsy. All you need to do is register the website, upload the images of your products, write the product descriptions and you are ready to sell your products anywhere in the world. You can also choose to display adverts on your site. You could be paid per view, that is, you will be paid a certain amount each time a visitor is shown an advert, or you could be paid per click, or a combination of both. This type of income will be slow and the amounts per click or per exposure will be minimal, but once in place there is no further work to do, so you can be earning money in other ways while your website makes money for you too. If you don't have your own website or blog on which to publish your articles, you could consider finding someone who will pay you to write their articles for you. There are many online agencies that will buy articles from you to sell on to their clients, and there are also several websites that list online jobs so you can work directly with a client. However scams are rife even on some of the well regulated freelancer job sites so do be very cautious. You could also make money by completing surveys online. These paid survey companies need everyday people to give their opinions for their market research, and they are willing to pay you for your time. The amount you make per survey will be small but it does add up. There are some points to look out for though. Make sure you do get paid, and don't simply get a put into a prize draw. Look at the payout amount too. some sites will pay out at a small amount while others will require you to earn a large amount before you reach their payout level. This could take several years. Also look at how you get paid. It could be cash, vouchers or products. You may also be offered the chance to test products as a result of completing a survey which may not make you money but it may well save you money. The concept of paid surveys has been around for a long time, starting out on the streets, however, with the advance of home computers it has become more common to take surveys online. Marketing companies are paid to gather this information which the larger companies make use of when they are looking to invest in a new marketing plan or advertising campaign. Companies and corporations spend billions of dollars on advertising every year, and it certainly is worth their while getting opinions via online research to help them tailor their campaigns As with most online earning opportunities, there are the good ones and there are the scams.So, how do you determine which paid surveys are legitimate and which ones are dodgy? Legitimate paid surveys companies will have full and comprehensive terms and conditions readily available on the site and will comply with data protection requirements. You will never be asked for your bank account details or passwords, unless of course it is to pay money you have earned into your bank account. A legitimate company will never try to sell you anything, or ask you for money under the guise of research. Good companies will have someone on hand to politely and accurately answer your questions and alleviate any concerns you may have. If in doubt it's a good idea to search online for the name of the company. If other people have been scammed by them, it's likely to come up in a search. To earn the most from paid survey websites, you need to complete as many surveys as possible.Sign up for as many survey sites as you can and keep your profile up to date on each one. This way you increase your chances of being sent surveys. You may also be offered the opportunity to participate in an online or offline focus group.This involves spending a couple of hours with a small group of people to discuss a product, a service or a marketing idea. This could be at a location in your town, or it could be gone online via a chat program. The pay for these in depth sessions is often very good too. There is a lot of paperwork to be done, and when you work for several companies this can get confusing. Companies will differ regarding whether they employ you or class you as self employed so it is likely that you will need to register as self employed. Any self employed work you do, you will need to pay the tax on it yourself. If you have a good memory and don't mind a lot of paperwork then mystery shopping is a fun and interesting way to make a little extra money. It would be very hard to make a full time living from mystery shopping as the pay for each assignment is quite low, but it can help supplement your income, and provide some nice treats too that you might not ordinarily have had. There are websites too that hire people in their own homes to moderate chat rooms, such as online Bingo sites. The work involves keeping an eye on the chat to make sure no one is causing trouble or using bad language. You'll be there to answer questions and also perhaps to run little games and competitions and to post advertisements for other services offered by the site. As well as this you'll be encouraged to chat and build up a rapport with the site visitors. Again this type of job is done in shifts. You'll also find work online and over the telephone offering chat services of an adult nature. 