The reason why the US Capitol is an important edifice in the United States is because it houses the Congress. The government of a state will never exist without the lawmakers and the legislators. Thus, the presence of the US Capitol helps the Congress to perform its duties and execute its functions.

The Congress is the group of people who make the laws of a nation. The United States Congress is made up of two smaller groups called the Senate and the House of Representatives. By the presence of two smaller groups within the US Congress, the legislative branch of the country is called bicameral. The United States Congress is the bicameral legislature of the federal governmentof the United States of America, consisting of two houses, the Senate and the House of Representatives. Both senators and representatives are chosen through the performance of a direct election.

Even if the Congress of the United States of America is bicameral, both the groups are housed within the US Capitol Complex. This is a good idea since the legislative component of the government of the United States can be found on one area. Another thing which provides for an advantage of having the US Capitol is the fact that it is not in the White House. With this distance from the White House, the separation of the branches of the government is affirmed not just in an ideal manner but also in the physical or material level. This is important in order for the branches of government to be able to work and perform its official functions in a free manner and without the unnecessary interventions of other brances of the government which should be treated as co-equal branches.

The Library of Congress is one of the biggest libraries across the world. It is popular because of the variety of books and variety of sources which can be found here. Many people even visit the Library of Congress to study and do some research work. Some other people who have limited time would also go there to the de facto national library of the United States and the research arm of the United States Congress. Whenever the Congress would have legislations and official functions with the need of intensive research, the Congressmen and the Senate would consult with the library's resources in order to find out what they have to know. It is needless to say that having the Library of Congress within the grounds of the US Capitol is an important factor to make easy the very important task of the Congress in enacting laws. The US Library of Congress itself is not just made up of a single building. Located in three buildings in Washington, D.C., it is the largest library in the world by shelf space and holds the largest number of books.

The head of the Library is the Librarian of Congress, currently James H. Billington. The genius idea of including the library within the Capitol Complex is very significant in helping the efficiency and effectiveness of the work of Congress. Because of the considerable amount time which the Library of Congress has served the nation, the library is a very important part of US history and even of US' current events. The Library of Congress was established by the US Congress in the year 1800 and was housed in the United States Capitol for most of the 19th century. In spite of the diligent care that has been dedicated for the books of the Library of Congress, some were destroyed during the war. After much of the original collection had been destroyed during theWar of 1812, Thomas Jefferson sold the library his 6487 books, his entire personal library, in 1815. This act by the president created a significant impact in the history in the library.

After a period of decline during the mid-19th century the Library of Congress began to grow rapidly in both size and importance after the American Civil War, culminating in the construction of a separate library building and the transference of all copyright deposit holdings to the Library. Since that time, the management of the library and the government administration eyed improving the collection of the Library of Congress. The 20th century was a special period for the Library of Congress. During the rapid expansion of the 20th century the Library of Congress assumed a preeminent public role, becoming a "library of last resort" and expanding its mission for the benefit of scholars and the American people. The Library's primary mission is researching inquiries made by members of Congress through the Congressional Research Service; although it is open to the public, only legislators, Supreme Court justices and other high-ranking government officials may check out books. Because of the important role that the library plays in government functions, the people behind the government were right in planning to include the library in the US Capitol Complex. A Library of Congress that is far from the Capitol Complex would be unimaginable.

Through the United States Copyright Office, the Library of Congress also receives copies of every book, pamphlet, map, print, and piece of music registered in the United States. As the de facto national library, the Library of Congress promotes literacy and American literature through projects such as the American Folklife Center, American Memory, Center for the Book and Poet Laureate. In spite of the name attached to the US Library of Congress, it is also important to note that the use of the library is not just for the bureaucrats. Its use is also available to the public who for academic reasons and for the love of knowledge, would want to gain access to the library.