Martha Stewart, admired by many and mocked by some for her highly branded empire of aspirational homemaking, became the target of some intensely focused schadenfreude in 2002 when she was investigated for insider trading. Her sale of four thousand ImClone shares immediately after the company's president unloaded his own, and immediately before its share price plummeted following a negative report from the FDA, left her open to suspicion of corruption and wrongdoing and ultimately earned her a five-month prison sentence. Along the way, Martha became a symbol of public corruption. She was every bit as potent a symbol of everything that was wrong with corporate America as she had been of flawless and apparently effortless domesticity. Many people saw her prosecution and conviction as evidence that the rich and powerful couldn't get away with abusing their position, and that they were in fact subject to the same rules as the rest of us. This, however, was too simplistic a reading of Martha's case. For one thing, she was not, in fact, convicted of or even prosecuted for insider trading, but for obstruction of justice and lying to a federal agent. Many people still believe that she was convicted of insider trading, but the charge was never even brought. For another, Martha's case had nothing to do with striking a blow against corporate corruption or the financial lawlessness of much of the monied classes in the United States; neither of these was destabilized in the least by Martha's case. In fact, the only effect Martha's prosecution and conviction can be said to have had on high-level financial corruption is that it received less attention for a time, because Martha's case served as a sump for anger and frustration about white-collar financial crime. Trying and convicting her would mean that Wall Street was being cleaned up, soothing some of the popular anger then brewing over the recent massive financial scandals at Enron, Arthur Anderson, and Tyco. It certainly was true that Martha was, economically, one of the elite. She did not start out that way, however. And that, you might say, is where the trouble began. With that move, Martha went from being a highly successful guru of domesticity to a high-level financial player. She became someone whose calls would always be taken - and even more fatally, to whom calls would always be made. She became one of the financial elite who operated according to an unspoken understanding that the rules did not really apply to them. In late December of 2001, ImClone, a biotechnology and pharmaceutical company, was on pins and needles. Everyone in the company, and more particularly all of the company's shareholders, was anxiously awaiting feedback from the United Stated Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on the company's new superstar drug, Erbitux. Erbitux, an experimental monoclonal antibody, was intended to be a treatment for cancers of the head and neck, and a major part of the company's future. The FDA announcement would be a highly important event in determining how the company moved forward. ImClone's president, Sam Waksal, and its highest-level executives were confidently expecting FDA approval to proceed with testing of the drug. Sam Waksal also called his own broker, who worked at Merrill Lynch, early on December 27th, 2001. He asked his broker to sell all of his ImClone stock. This prompted a number of internal debates at Merrill Lynch about whether it was possible for Waksal to sell all of his own stock. Martha Stewart, as it happened, also handled her investments through Merrill Lynch. In fact, she and Sam Waksal shared the same broker, a man named Peter Bocanovich. While all the internal debates at Merrill Lynch were taking place, regarding the feasibility of Waksal's selling his own shares, Bocanovich quietly took his assistant aside and asked him to call Martha Stewart and tell her that he had good grounds for thinking that ImClone stock was about to start losing value. The assistant, Douglas Faneuil, obeyed. He made, on December 27th, what has come to be thought of as The Call. On The Call, he left a voice mail in which he said "Peter Bocanovich thinks ImClone is about to start trading downwards." Martha's personal assistant, Anne Armstrong, received the voice mail and gave the message to Martha. Martha was on her way to a vacation in Mexico, but immediately phoned Sam Waksal and left this message: "Martha Stewart something is going on with ImClone and she wants to find out what." It appears, however, that she was not able to speak with Waksal that day. If she did communicate with him about ImClone shares, which is not clear, it was after she sold her shares. (Although it is not demonstrably clear whether or when Martha and Waksal spoke about ImClone, it must be assumed that at some point they did. Waksal and Martha had been friends for years, and Martha's daughter had dated Waksal, despite a more than twenty-year age difference. It is not credible to think that Waksal would ignore such a phone message from Martha. The one scenario under which one can imagine that he might choose not to return the call is that, seeing when Martha called and surmising that she might already have sold her shares, Waksal decided not to communicate with her for a while so as not to leave an electronic trail that might suggest insider trading. The possibility of this motivation is undermined, however, by Waksal's total lack of caution in attempting to unload his own shares and warning his family and close associates to do the same. The idea that he would suddenly become cautious in regard to tipping off Martha Stewart seems unlikely.) She had merely been told that the president of the company was selling all his shares, and thought, well, then, I'd be stupid not to sell as well. While using insider information is illegal, making trading decisions based on the trades of insiders is not. In fact, it happens all the time; whole enterprises have been formed simply to keep an eye on what insiders buy and sell and communicate that intelligence to subscribers. It is true that Sam Waksal's selling off (or attempted selling off) of his ImClone shares was not in itself a public fact, but the laws governing insider trading don't require that the information a seller is acting on to be explicitly public, and they definitely don't require that the seller determine whether the information is public before acting on it. They only require that the information must not be something that is by definition unavailable to the public, and must not be obtained by means of an insider status that by definition the public cannot share. The information Sam Waksal was acting on was certainly, by definition, non-public, and his means of obtaining it - being the president of the company and being the first one to receive the news from the FDA - was by definition not available to the public. His guilt regarding insider trading is not in doubt. Martha, however, acted - it seems - on the information that Faneuil gave her - that Waksal was selling. It is legitimate for her to have acted on this information. If what she had actually acted on was not the information that Waksal was selling, but the information that ImClone's FDA license for Erbitux had been rejected - that would not be legitimate. If she had spoken to Waksal before making the decision to sell, that would point clearly to insider trading. But it appears that no such conversation took place, or at least there is no evidence or indication to suggest that it did. The trouble started when - well, actually, the trouble had already started. But Martha's real trouble started when Merrill Lynch's internal auditors began asking questions, almost immediately after ImClone's stock plummeted following the announcement of Erbitrux's rejection by the FDA. The auditors saw that Waksal, his daughter, and his father had all given huge sell orders on the 27th, and that the FDA announcement had been made on the 28th. Because Waksal was a Bacanovic client, they noticed that Martha Stewart had also sold her shares on the same day. They began to ask questions. At this point, both Bacanovic and Martha would have benefited greatly from a clearer understanding of the legal status of their actions up till that point. It does not seem to have been illegal for Bacanovic to have tipped Martha off that Waksal was selling his shares (though it was contrary to Merrill Lynch policy). Neither was it illegal for Martha to have sold her shares based on that information. It is not clear what the consequences for Bacanovic would have been if he were known to have broken a Merrill Lynch rule. It is possible that they would have been minimal, and dealt with quietly, given that he did what he did in order to keep Martha as a Merrill Lynch client. Martha was famously irascible and demanding, and giving her what amounted to special treatment might have been seen by Merrill Lynch as the kind of discretion and initiative they expect from their top brokers. Or it might have been seen as a blatant attempt by Bacanovic to keep a lucrative client in order to boost his own earnings that year. It is fairly clear, however, what the consequences would have been for Martha had she been upfront about her actions. She could have said to investigators, in effect, "I purchased that ImClone stock a while ago, and then I heard from my broker that Sam, a close friend whose judgment I respect, saw fit to begin selling his shares in ImClone. I don't follow these things closely, so that seemed a good enough reason to me to sell mine. Later, I contacted Sam to ask what had been happening. That's all." Had she done this, the SEC might have believed that there was wrongful conduct or insider trading. They would not, however, have had any evidence of this. In reality, Martha did not hear about the FDA rejection of Erbitrux until well after she had sold her shares, nor did she speak to Waksal, so there could not possibly have been any evidence that she had that information. (Martha might have thought herself very fortunate that she did not succeed in reaching Waksal that day.) Even if the SEC had suspected that Martha had engaged in insider trading or in some kind of financial misconduct, strongly enough to charge her with the crime, the most likely outcome by far would have been that they notified her that they might proceed with the charge and that she would then have been given the opportunity to settle the case. The settlement would likely have required her to repay any profits from the sale plus a fine. Most SEC cases end up in some kind of similar settlement. It is likely that Martha would have ended up less than fifty thousand dollars the poorer.