1. Privacy As implied by its name, these fences are designed to keep your space private. You can use this type of fence to protect against intrusion, to enclose your pool, or to block your neighborhood. This fence is generally defined by its stature, board width, and board spacing: Average height: 6 feet Average width: 4 inches Average spacing: less than an eighth of an inch Semi-privacy fencing is less stringent, allowing for wider spaces between boards and more open, decorative fence tops. 2. Cottage This type of fence is known best for the white picket fence. It brings the homeowners' dreams into the reality when it comes to their desired look. Cottage fencing doesn't only give elegance to your landscape, it's also a good choice in protecting your property. Fencing list is incomplete if this is not included. So, imagine how special this type of fence is. 3. Farm or Ranch Fencing Farm fencing can be used to corral large animals or simply to define the edge of a property. This kind of fencing has different varieties- from the more open 2 to 3 or 4 railing styles to the tighter and more private field fencing. This type of fencing is very versatile-- you can use a rough hewn logs or ultra smooth finished lumber, depending upon your taste. 4. Slat Don't be discouraged by its name because this type of fence can be very beautiful and elaborate due to its fancy cuts and geometric designs built into the fence's building. Generally, this fence has 3 to 4 feet height, with slightly broader boards than the general picket fence. 5. Decorative As the name suggests, decorative fencing is primarily designed for its visual appeal. This type can add visual splendor to even the most boring yard and will capture compliments from every passer-by, regardless of what building material you used. Whatever decoration or design you choose, you're home will be noticed with this decorative fence. STYLES OF FENCES Gothic: The word "Gothic" in fence language refers to the pointed tops of the fence, either in the individual pickets or in the finials of a wrought iron fence. Its style was derived from the Middle Ages architecture in between the 12th and 16th centuries and it is a fence style favorite. French Gothic: Compare to Gothic, this style of fence is slightly more dashing in its style because of its additional curves and flourettes. Scalloped: Scallop fences add beauty to the clean lines of fences. It is primarily used in wood, composite, and vinyl fencing.This style's edging took off the possible straight lines monotony that other fences have. Flat: The word flat here doesn't refer to a boring or unattractive kind of fence rather it refers to the boards' horizontal laying used in fence making. Compare to other styles which are using vertical placement of fence pieces, flat styles orient these pieces in order for the top line of the fence becomes flat. If done perfectly, this kind of fence style can create a pleasing view to every one who'll see it. Made from steel, these fences come in a range of gauges and protective coatings. They are a classic application in both residential and commercial settings, which come in different varieties of colors, sizes, qualities, and types. Quality chain link fences can provide years of protection and privacy. Coating- from Zinc to Aluminum The galvanized zinc is the most common protective coating used on chain link fences. It is what gives them their silvery look. Often, they are coated with vinyl or polyester aside from the zinc in order to blend into surrounding trees, landscaping and other foliage. They may also be coated with aluminum; however, zinc has the advantage of being 'sacrificial,' which means that if the mesh is cut, the zinc will 'heal' itself and prevent rusting. Compare to a fence coated with aluminum that when it is cut, it will be opened to rust and weathering. Diameter and Pricing Chain link fence posts come in a range of diameters. For residential, they measure from 1-3/8" to 2-3/8". Take note that the wider the diameter, the stronger the post. Often, wider posts are used at corners with smaller diameter posts along the runs. Chain link fencing varies, yet it usually costs between $3.50 and $8.00 per lineal foot, depending on its quality and height. Commercial-grade fences can cost you up to $15.00 per lineal foot. Fences that come in 4' and 6' heights, often have a 10-yr warranty or longer. As mentioned before, styles of wooden fences greatly vary. The different styles of wooden fences are picket , stockade, lattice, post and rail. Let's find out what these styles have in common. There are three basic components for building privacy wooden fences, despite of its different styles- the first two of these three components form the basis for building a fence just like any wooden fence: Posts: Sometimes posts only stand as high as the fence panels' tops. But other wooden fence styles allow the post to be extended above the panels and you have an option to add finials for fences to serve as decoration. Vertical components rooted firmly in the earth. Properly set posts will hold all the other components in place. They are the foundation for your wooden fence. Rails: Rails make the spanning work in wooden fences if you connect one post to the next. They serve as your horizontal elements that will run parallel to the ground. You can as well find top and bottom rails in wooden fence styles and there are many that will also have middle rails, which the panels can be attached. Panels (boards) : The panels act as the chief screening component in privacy wooden fences. In open wooden fence styles like the post and rail, there are no panels, which mean they require much less lumber to build. Each of the distinct panel designs has a defined shape, especially at the top. Sometimes panels are attached to obscure the posts on one side or the other. However, you can alternatively allow the posts to jut out in relief on one or both sides. Here are tips and suggestions on how to build wood fences that can save you time, money, and effort: TOOL AND MATERIAL CHECKLIST Boards and Posts Gravel and Sand Paint or Outdoor Stain Steel Tape Marking Pencil Work Gloves Small Axe or Hatchet Power Saw Post Hole Digger Hand Saw Hammer Nails THE FENCE POSTS SPACING: When making the fence posts spacing, always take time to accurately measure and position the posts, because the great deal on the appearance and the structural strength of your fence depends on how you position the fence posts. The spacing of the posts depends on the type of fence you build, the terrain, the purpose of the fence, and other applicable factors. Yet, as a rule, posting a fence should be about 6' to 8' apart. First, you have to set the corner or end post, then to align all the posts in between, stretch a line from each corner or end post. Drive a stake every 6' to 8' at the exact position where the post hole is to be dug . THE FENCE POSTS SET UP: Buried all wood fence posts about 1/3 their total height and length in the ground. This is important especially on corner posts that will carry heavy weight or withstand high wind pressure. Straightly dig the holes to the proper depth at each stake marker by using a regular post's hole digger. Make your holes slightly larger at the bottom than at the top to anchor your posts more firmly. Then, put a large stone or two shovels full of gravel in each bottom hole to provide drainage avoiding having excessive moisture at each post base. Use a wood preservative in treating the post section that will be placed underground. Allowing the post overnight in the preservative will make the post well-saturated. Pack the posts either with dirt or concrete. And for either case, you can place two or three shovels full of gravel in each bottom hole before placing the post into its position. You can make sure that the the posts are in an exact and upright position by checking the alignment of each post with a regular level and/or by checking the alignment of the posts in one direction by sighting from one row end of posts to the other. When the post is already properly aligned, thoroughly tamp it to be able to pack the dirt (if used) around the post's base. Make sure that the alignment of the post is not altered during the tamping process. When the post is firmly positioned, build a mound around it to help eliminate water standing at the post's base. Slightly slope the concrete away from the post and round it off with a trowel and lightly tamp the concrete to eliminate any air bubbles left in the mixture that can act as water pockets. Provide extra bracing at all corners. A corner post must carry the weight of fence stretched in two directions, so it should be set in both directions. Let the posts stand for several days. Before adding the fence, firmly settle in its position. To help eliminate accumulating water, the posts' heads should be rounded, capped or slanted. Accumulated water can cause rotting, ADDING RAILS TO FENCE POST: There are three basic ways to attach a top and bottom rail to the fence posts: The ideal installation for many fencing structure is to nail the top rail to the top of the post. The top rail can also be joined to another rail in the center of a post. Attach the rail with a groove, a wood block or a metal bracket, if it is added on the post's body and not on the top. Attach the bottom rail to the post using either of no. 1 or no. 2. Other several ways of attaching a rail to a fence post: 1. The joint type you'll use in attaching the fence supports to the post primarily depends on the fence's type you are building. 2. One of the easiest joints to use is the lap joint- the rail is grooved into the post than being nailed to the post surface. 3. Often better yet a more difficult to make is the butt joint. The mortised joint is even neater than the butt joint, yet you must cut a mortise into the post for this joint. 4. The commonly used joint on the decorative fences is the slotted joint. But you should treat with preservatives all the slotted joints for the grooved areas to be prevented from rotting. The two different processes of zinc application to wire are: Galvanized after weaving is a process where the wire rod is drawn to the finished gauge, and then woven into the chain link fabric. After which, you have to pull it through a pot of molten zinc. This process is for 1.2 ounces of zinc coating per square foot of fabric. Galvanized before weaving is the other process of zinc coating application. In this process, the wire rod is drawn to gauge and then, the strand wire is pulled through a pot of molten zinc after it is woven into the chain link fabric. With this process, the chain link fabric made generally carries a zinc weight of .8 oz per square foot or less. The distance between the two parallel fabric wires is called mesh size. The most common mesh sizes are: 2" or 2 1/4" smaller meshes measure 3/8", 5/8", 1", 1 1/4", 1 1/2" and 1 3/4" and they are available for projects requiring a higher degree of security. Both the gauge of the wire and the zinc coating weight applied to the wire determine the quality of the chain link fence fabric. So, if you want a high quality chain link fence fabric, see to it that you will use the best gauge and zinc coated wires. 