very recently filed corrected or revised tax returns in order to report $128,203 in unpaid taxes, along with $11,964 in interest owed on the unpaid tax. When the revision was first made public in January 2009, a White House spokesman acknowledged that the former senator from the state of North Dakota did have some issues relating to taxes, but that Senator Daschle was attending to the matter and that President Obama fully expected Daschle to be confirmed as Secretary of Health and Human Services. Daschle's amended tax returns were for the years 2005, 2006, and 2007, and were revised in order to show additional income for work he had undertaken as an independent consultant, to declare the use of a car service as non-monetary income, and some reductions in deductions he had taken for charitable contributions. Particularly damaging was the revelation that Daschle had only corrected his tax returns from former years after it was announced that the president planned to nominate him to his Cabinet.

It did not help that the bulk of the unpaid taxes were related to the use of the car service, which had been provided to him by a business colleague who was also a close friend. Over the three years in question, the unreported income from that service came to about $250,000.

(It may also have threatened the survival of Obama's sweeping health care reform plan, which, if you're a freelancer in the United States, should concern you greatly; you probably don't have any money or insurance and your preventive health habits most likely suggest those of someone who's planning to commit suicide later this week.) The United States Post Office and the United States Internal Revenue Service are both parts of the federal government. This seems like kind of a passive-aggressive dig at the Post Office, like, you just don't know what'll happen when the Post Office gets hold of the thing.

Maybe they have siblingissues? Finally, something within my limited grasp. But despite the support, such as it is, offered by this guide and others like it, you know you are essentially in hostile territory. You're basically crossing Mordor, to throw your tax payment into the fires of Mount Doom. The difference is that Frodo only had to do this once, but you'll be back same time next year. Given the onerousness of the task, it may be surprising that anyone does it when they could just hire someone to do it for them. But there are disadvantages to hiring a tax professional as well.

It's expensive, for one thing. But the primary down side is that, when you hire an accountant to do your taxes, you have to experience all the shame and remorse of doing your taxes on paper in pencil, but in front of another human being. I don't care how professional and objective and sympathetic they are, there is something about having to say to another living person, "I'm a freelance writer, and what do you mean did I pay my quarterly estimated taxes, and I'm assuming I can go on counting coffee as a business expense?" that just crushes a little bit of your soul. Fortunately, this isn't a choice you have to make today. You have another option, one that combines the best of both options, or at least helps avoid the worst of both. You can do your taxes yourself, on your computer, using specialized tax software, and file them electronically when you're done.

True, it'll mean missing out on the festive atmosphere at the one post office in town that stays open till midnight on April 15th, when you gather at around 11:45 with all your city's most creative and enterprising taxpayers to revel in an atmosphere of caffeine-fueled, sleep-deprived nervous mania - but really, you won't miss it. Simply for ease of use, there is no comparison between doing your taxes on paper and doing them on the computer. Starting in the early 2000s, the Internal Revenue Service began heavily promoting e-filing over paper filing - though it had developed the technology for e-filing much earlier.

The e-file program was initially launched in 1986 as a pilot project, and was conducted in partnership with the professional tax community, especially tax-preparation software providers. Throughout the test year, the Internal Revenue Service approved five third-party transmitters to do electronic filing of tax returns. Over three locations, the five transmitters submitted twenty-five thousand tax returns. At first, the policy was that tax preparation professionals could file returns only if no payment was owed for that year by the taxpayer. There were also limitations on the kinds of taxpayers that could participate in the program and the types of returns that they could file.

If you had a complicated taxpayer status - for instance, married filing singly, or American living abroad and being paid by a foreign company but paying U.S. resident tax - or if you had a complicated tax return, such as you might have if you were self-employed, say a freelancer of some kind - you were most likely not eligible for electronic filing. Of course, these are exactly the types of taxpayers and tax situations that would be most helped by electronic filing - but these were early prototypes and were intentionally streamlined in order to help work out the bugs before expanding the program to all or most taxpayers and tax returns. The freelancer-friendly home software system was coming soon enough.

The Internal Revenue Service had one major goal in mind when they developed and launched the pilot electronic filing program - to enhance the speed and effectiveness of reviewing and processing tax returns. Before they began working on electronic filing, Internal Revenue Service employees were required to enter by hand all the data from each tax return received, which entailed a great deal of employee time and increased the chance for human error. With the new electronic filing system, only one human's time (and propensity for error) enters into the equation: that of the taxpayer or his or her paid tax preparation specialist.

In this sense, if you think about it, the electronic filing system for income tax parallels changes in a number of other industries, starting from a few decades earlier, that shifted the burden of labor from vendor to customer; grocery stores were among the earliest to make this change in the United States, followed by hardware stories and other kinds of do-it-yourself stores. By the time this electronic system was being piloted, home goods stores such as the ironically titled Service Merchandise had instituted a system by which customers were even responsible for making inventory requests and managing delivery. Unlike that model, however, the new electronic filing model that substituted the taxpayer's labor (or the tax professional's) for the labor of Internal Revenue Service employees actually resulted in an improvement in efficiency for both taxpayer and for the Internal Revenue Service labor force.

This is partly because the labor that the electronic filing system replaced was repetitive - typing into the Internal Revenue Service's system information that had already been generated by the taxpayer. Saving this labor on the part of the Internal Revenue Service employees did not result in an increase in labor for the taxpayer - he or she would have had to do that work anyway. And as would soon become clear, the electronic filing system would also save a great deal of time, effort, and psychological strain for the taxpayer as well.

The pilot program was considered to have been successful, and the electronic filing program went into full operational effect for the following tax year (1987). For the first few years, only tax preparation professionals were permitted to use the electronic filing system, and only returns that had no tax balance due could be submitted via the electronic system. In 1988, the new system was expanded to include 16 districts; it was expanded again in 1989 to include 48 districts. The Internal Revenue Service developed a new computer system with enhanced archiving and retrieval functions that would allow for tax return information to be stored securely and retrieved quickly. The system-wide federal and state electronic filing system was introduced by the Internal Revenue Service in 1991, and in 1992, they allowed for the first time for individual taxpayers to file their own tax returns from home (as long as their returns met certain requirements; more complex returns still had to be completed on paper or by a tax preparation professional). In 1996, the system added the "Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS)," through which individual taxpayers could use electronic means to pay whatever balance was due on their federal taxes. In 1999, the EFTPS was expanded to merge with the electronic filing system so that a taxpayer with balance due could file his or her return electronically, and at the same time pay the balance due on the return with a credit card or a link to bank account to be direct debited. By 2003, electronic filing and payment was available for both federal and state taxes in thirty-seven states and the District of Columbia.

t electronic filing using home software significantly reduced error rates and - probably of greater interest to most taxpayers - that those who filed electronically received their refunds much sooner than those who filed on paper, some in less than half the time it would have taken prior to the introduction of electronic filing. The survey also found that for Internet-savvy young professionals and college students, completing a tax return on paper and standing in a line at the post office to mail it in would be considered deeply painful and humiliating. A large majority said that it would be comparable to giving up their Internet access or their cell phones for a week, or to being exposed to widespread humiliation and public censure via a reality television show. Of eighteen-to-thirty-year-old taxpayers who filed their own taxes, seventy-three percent were found to use the electronic filing system.