Our Farm Practices Our approach to farming allows us to grow our produce and manage our livestock in a manner that is good for the environment, the animals we keep, and our customers in the following ways: Nutrient Cycling is vital to the health of our farm and minimizes external nutrient inputs to the farm as well as nutrient loss into surface and ground water. Biodiversity and natural ecosystem processes are conserved through Agroforestry. The farm benefits through enhanced beauty and by maintaining trees that are good for honey production such as sourwood, shading our chickens and livestock, eliminating erosion, and minimizing our need for grid power to heat or cool our home.

Water Conservation is a focus on the farm, and we are situated in the upper reaches of the Cane Creek Reservoir watershed. Our efforts to increase water conservation include taking care to eliminate erosion and animal waste run-off. Rotational Grazing for all of our animals is another method we use to preserve our environment. Our chickens and livestock are frequently moved to clean and nutritious paddocks on our farm. For instance, steers are followed by sheep which are followed by laying hens.

Biodiesel drives all of our farm vehicles, and we use biodiesel exclusively. Not only is this a renewable, non-polluting alternative to petroleum diesel, but it is produced only 35 miles from Fickle Creek Farm by Piedmont Biofuels. Participation in the Local Economy .

We believe in maximum participationin the Local Economy, and buy and sell as close to home as possible. For example, we have purchased all our livestock within 30 miles of the farm, our layer feed is milled in Durham, and our most distant point of sales is 25 miles from the farm. Our holistic system , focuses on Native Plants in our landscape so that the beings which were here first, from micro-organisms to large mammals, have the best chance of continuing in a balanced ecosystem. The permaculture principles we adhere to mean that each part of our diverse farm benefits from, and is a benefit to, several other pieces of our overall operation.

For instance, our pigs benefit from the output from our market garden.