European Viticulture Grape vines are believed to have been growing thousands of years ago along the warm, sunny Mediterranean shores. By the time the Rom an colonists arrived they reported merry drinking pa rties, and that on reflection, the local wine was not half bad either. History does not record the man or woman who first tasted a grape kissed sweetly warm by summer sunshine. Or who, indeed, had the first hangover after drinking too much of the raw fermented juice. We do however know that there were early vineyards along the Danube river and towards the northwest of it. The grapes they cultivated in those wild halycon days when there was no need to think of pensions, were of the same variety that we enjoy today.

From north to south there were in those days three distinct wine-farming areas: On the south-facing slopes of the Leithagebirge - one of the last foothills of the Alps, stretching from Breitenbrunn to Großhöflein near Eisenstadt - were soils of mica schist and chalk, which was ideal for producing minerally-rich wines of character. The second area was near the Neusiedlersee lake itself - around Oggau, Rust and Mörbisch - where moderate temperatures, reflection of sunlight and high autumn humidity helped create aromatic white wines and very mature reds. Botrytis cinerea was at the core of the Ruster Ausbruch - a wine with a glorious past, and now undergoing a remarkable renaissance. Further south, the third distinct area was located around Zagersdorf itself, and Pöttelsdorf too.

Here, ideal conditions prevailed for red wines, particularly Blaufränkisch. The climate and soils were similar to the neighbouring Mittelburgenland wine-growing area though.

The Roman Occupation These factors combined to ensure that viticulture flourished under the Roman occupation, especially along the Danube, near Carnuntum, near Leibnitz in the Südsteiermark (they called it Flavia Solva), around the Neusiedlersee (Lake Neusiedl), at Eisenberg in Südburgenland and Vindobona (Vienna) - and also Augustianis (Traismauer), Aquae (Baden) and and Favianis (Mautern) too. Two events that took place at that time are significant. In the year AD 228 Emperor Probus dismissed a regulation issued by Emperor Domitian in AD 91 to the effect that no vines might be cultivated on the north side of the Alpine ranges (this was to ensure an adequate supply of wine for the legionaries that he wanted to settle there). Then in 470 A.D. a Roman author named Eugippius mentioned that Saint Severin had vineyards near Mautern. The Golden Age of Charlemagne This situation was reversed during the reign of Emperor Charlemagne (742-814 A.D.).

Rconstruction followed in the form of the purification of grape varieties, orderly showpiece vineyards, and the introduction of grape presses (which had become surprisingly sophisticated). In future, all monastical grants of land specified that vines would be planted and viticulture nurtured. Thus sipping a moderate glass of wine was a noble activity, something which students today (but not all academics) appreciate. The Hungarian Magyar living at that time were highly bellicose, and their 890-955 AD invasion set progress back for decades. After they finally left, the cloisters and monasteies at Freising, Niederaltaich, Kremsmünster, Tegernsee, Passau, and Salzburg rallied, with Cistercians from Burgundy leading the charge. This in turn inspired the peasantry in Wachau, the Thermenregion, Burgenland and Steiermark around regions and Klosterneuburg itself to advance their knowledge of wine growing, and processing and bottling. In fact, it can be said that clerics, aristocrats and middle classes were established experts in the art of fine wine by Middle Ages . The earliest vineyard names are recorded in official documents from the 13th century, with the first being Kremser Sandgrube (1208), and Steiner Pfaffenberg 22 years later.

At around 1250 viticulture started spreading west as far as Salzburg. During this period Duke Rudolf IV The Stifter introduced the first wine tax or ungeld in 1359. Not every year provided an equally good vintage. An extreme case was when Emperor Friedrich III declared the wine to be "unpleasant", and directed that it be used for mixing mortar for the tower of St. Stephan's Cathedral in Vienna.

History does not record the facts, however it is likely that stonemasons may at least have risked a taste of it. However 1499 that followed was a fantastic year. Indeed, they had to build more "Moststuben Must Halls" to mop up the surpluses. At the time, average per capita consumption soared to 180 liters (the figure for 2011 is just 30 liters!), with many people literally drinking themselves to death! By the beginning of the 16th Century, vineyards were flourishing all over Europe. There were considerable set-backs in the 17th Century that followed though. Heavy taxes were imposed on s toring and selling wine, its production and it's transportation too. Although the established Church appreciated its grog and was accordingly not in a teetotal mood (so that competition from the brewing of beer increased) the so-called religious wars - especially the Thirty Years' War that was little more than a colonial campaign - had the opposite effect.

Thankfully, the golden age of viticulture returned in the the 18th Century, when Empress Maria Theresa and her son Joseph 2nd decided that they rather enjoyed a glass of wine, and that it was respectable after all. More crises marked the 19th century, including several frozen winters. The situation was exacerbated when fungal diseases were imported from America on ships. In 1872, grape phylloxera killed off the majority of vines in central Europe. Decades later, farmers discovered how to produce a disease-resistant cultivar, through selective grafting of European scions onto phylloxera-resistant American vines.

20th Century Wine The rest is really history now. Wars, plagues and famines came and went across the world. Mass migration to South Africa, Australasia, California and Canada opened up new vineyards in sunnier climes. Enjoying wine moderately is as common now as washing hands before sitting down to eat. But science and technology have largely taken over, and huge investments dominate the market. The vast range of different terroirs, cultivars and brands has added confusion as international trade breaks down barriers. Now a person almost anywhere in the world can purchase and consume a bewildering range of wine found anywhere on the planet. But what does all this jargon mean?

What is the difference between a claret and a zimmenthaler? And is Methode Champonoise the same as French Champagne? But First, What is a Grape? Of course, the more daring of them may wander off arm-in-arm to escape the busy crowds and do what lovers do among the shady vines. While that may be as healthy for their hearts as a moderate glassful of red wine, I'll leave the rest to your imagination. wherever you can find a place in summer when the sun is shining and the birds are on the wing above. Ah, surely this is what life is all about , you'll think, as you relax after a delicious lunch and finally figure out the cultivar and terroir of the wine you're sipping.