Conclusion ===================================================== Introduction When I chose this topic, I immediately pictured a red MGB negotiating some blind bends at speed on an English country lane. Naturally I was at the wheel, and I felt on top of the world. Too bad then that dreams can't be converted to the 'here and now', so we will have to confine this article to some interesting facts and figures about this truly magnificent British sports car. Epitaph - MGB Born1962 - Died 1980 Considering the fact that the British car manufacturing sector was probably at its greatest in the 1960s, just why is it that the MGB has remained such a firm favorite with classic-car hobbyists? I mean, they could have had their pick from many other fine, and not so fine marks as well. In truth, the clues are perfectly straighforward: Take a good-looking two-door sports car Make it fun to drive And, easy to maintain Let it drive on forever One wonders why such a success story was ever allowed to slip out of production. MGBs formula was incredibly simple and easy to follow, so why was such a 'hotty' allowed to go the way of all British engineering? Meddling - that's the simplest explanation. Some over-rated and pompous executive took the decision probably entirely alone, and the sad part is that he probably got paid well for doing so. You know, the massive bonus, irrespective of individual performance! Ah well, perhaps the Chinese or the South Koreans will revive the tradition and put this unique vehicle back into full production. There certainly would be enormous interest and take up too. (By Martin Potthast, from the May 2004 issue of Classic Sports Car) Perhaps you are thinking about buying your very first classic two-seater sports car. If so, imagine asking 10 different classic-car specialists which car they would opt for. In fact, we did just that in a recent issue of Classic Sports Car, and the response we got back was that 3 out of 10 chose the MGB Sports Car as their first selection. Moreover, MGB featured in the top ten list of each one of the respondents. So just what makes the MGB such a firm favorite with classic-car collectors? Well, as already stated, it is good-looker, as well as being great fun to drive. Don't forget the easy maintenance too. We could go on, but these are reasons enough for choosing the MGB. Keep in mind that this sports car took on very few model changes in the almost two decades it was sold as a new car. The good news is that good examples of this vehicle are relatively easy to find, and are not overly expensive to buy. The best part is that you will be backed by a fantastic network of MGB enthusiasts who can provide support and share in the fun of ownership. Precisely what do you need to know (and ask) when shopping for an MGB? Well be happy to explain more later in this article. Did you know that Volvo made great mileage out of Roger Moore, alias "The Saint"? He was the super-hero of the 1960s and 70s, and was the TV equivalent of James Bond, and his Aston Martin. Wine, woman and song were his signature tune, and he was in great demand. The TV series in the UK went viral at the time, what with Moore taking on anything and everything that came his way. Escaping from seemingly impossible situations - always at the last moment - added to the thrill. The dashing looks and the quick rhetoric completed "The Saint's" almost-perfect profile. Men would pursue him for his arrogance, women for his 'pillow-appeal'! Was The MGB The Most Popular Sports Car Ever Made? Passionate MGB enthusiasts laid claim for several years that their Marque and Model - MGB Sports Car - was by far the best-selling sports car ever sold. True, with more than half-a-million cars assembled at Abingdon plant, Oxfordshire in England from 1962 through to 1980, the output was indeed impressive. Add the fact that, with over 300,000 roadsters exported to the U.S., this unit certainly proved itself, at least until the Abingdon plant closed down. Chevy Corvette owners have also claimed that they own the best-selling classic vehicle, but in point of fact, in its lifetime, the Corvette has undergone significant modifications in powertrain, style, and chassis design. The MGB by comparison had minor cosmetic modifications. Sure, individual components were modified, but the essentials from first to last, ensured that this beauty retained its original form largely. One potential worthy challenger to MGBs claim to glory is the Miata. By the end of 2000, some 585,000 Miatas had been built, and then with very little change to basic specification or style. First introduced in 1989, this vehicle surely has claim to the title of 'all time classic car seller'. This means that MGB fans can no longer substantiate their claim to fame based on production totals. Nevertheless, they can still brag that theirs is the most popular classic sports car ever made. Considering a production run of 18 years, not to mention a half-million cars produced, certainly speaks volumes about the quality of the MGB. And, for the new enthusiast, these numbers mean there are a lot of cars for sale and a lot of spare parts with which to keep them running for many years. What accounted for the long run and great reception, when so many other sports cars came and went during the same period? First introduced in September 1962, this proved a great time for sports cars. Take any Sunday, in any major city, and sports-car owners can be spotted 'airing' their various sports classics - you can see anything from Austin-Healey 3000s. Sprites, Sunbeam Alpines, Triumph TR3s, Corvettes, Alfa Romeo Giuliettas, Jaguars and Porsche 356s. They will all be competing in rallies over country roads and motorways too. The local inhabitants will come out in numbers to witness the spectacular event. Many are taken back several years to their youth, when several of these vehicles were new-comers to the motoring fraternity. Even auto cross circuits will be found on shopping-center parking lots. Ironically, it was from the humble 'Morris Garages' that the MGB Sports Car emerged. The distinctive octagonal trademark, bearing the letters M and G , recalled the M.G. Car Company's simple beginnings as Morris Garages back in the 1930s. First to emerge from the sports car stable was the 'TC'. We are not sure if this stood for twin carbs, or tour car, but the subsequent launch of the TD and TF models certainly announced MGBs intentions. All three models were referred to as square rigged because of their erect radiators and separate fenders. This created the impression of a square-rigged ship under sail! Soon, the MG TC was established n the U.S. Indeed, it was even featured on the cover of LIFE magazine. These versatile and quick-handling little cars had much to do with a developing American enchantment with sports cars in general. The TF was replaced by the elegant MGA in 1955. Some saw it as a belated response to the curvaceous offerings of the Jaguar and Austin-Healey. However, with its solid 1500, 1600 and then 1622cc four-cylinder engine versions, and four-speed manual transmission, the MGA soon developed a fan base on the streets and tracks of the U.S. In point of fact, it rapidly outsold the prewar-style T-series models. The rudimentary canvas top and separate plastic side windows, along with very little space in the passenger compartment, meant that the MGA was behind the times in terms of style. Moreover, the hood, side-curtains, cockpit and boot in the Anglophile jargon of the Faithful - as MG enthusiasts call themselves - pointed to the virtually undeniable fact that the MGA was behind the times. Consider the Sunbeam Alpine and the Alfa Giulietta of the same era, these cars had roll-up windows, reasonable trunks and workable tops. The fact that they were somewhat underpowered seemed to count for nought. The time was right for something a little more comfortable, a little more practical and, above all, a little more powerful from MG. Fortunately, MG had taken stock of the market sentiment, and for once its offering would be ahead of the competitors. The place was the Abingdon assembly line in Oxfordshire. The date was June 1962, and the first MGB 1800 rolled off the assembly line in Abingdon, England. The future seem assured! The MGA represented a departure from the traditional body-on-frame structure, which was widely accepted at the time when it came to contemporary sports car manufacturing. Incredibly, the Triumph TR2 (above picture) was in production for just two years. Launched by the Standard Motor Company in the United Kingdom, a respectable 8,636 vehicles were produced in this short space of time. Alas, UK DVLA records confirm that as at 2002, a mere 517 examples of this fine sports car remained registered on the roads. Using twin SU carburetors, similar to the 1991 cc four cylinder Standard Vanguard, this sports cars engine turned out a healthy 90 bhp (67 kW). The curvaceous body was dropped on to the rigid chassis and coil-sprung independent suspension at the front and a leaf spring live axle at the rear made for a comfortable enough ride. There was a choice too of either wire or disc wheels. Transmission was through a standard four speed manual floor shift, with overdrive available on top gear as an option. Lockheed drum brakes were fitted all round, as was the industry standard at the time. The MGB sports car featured a Monocoque chassis that combined the bodyshell and frame into a single unit. The Monocoque , MG had the added advantage of taking 40 pounds off the cars weight compared to the MGA. Considering that the latter had a shortened wheelbase - by only some three inches - this helped to increase interior space. What proved paramount was the body style, and this broke new ground for MG. After all, replacing the long, curving front fenders and short rump for a styling-line that ran unbroken from headlight to taillight was a good move. True, the Datsun had introduced a similar body style on its 1600 Fairlady one year earlier, but any similarity between the two marques has been lost to history. None-the-less, where the Datsun offering failed its true potential from a retaining body-on-frame structure, it proved very clunky and turned out heavy-handed in its execution of the styling concept. By comparison, the MGB proved to be understated and graceful. MGB was not unaware of the competition - in fact, they went on to include a comfortable cabin, together with attractive leather seats trimmed in contrasting piping, a black crackle-finish dashboard. An attached convertible top that was easy to put up and bring down poved to be a valuable sales pitch. There is no doubting that the MGB Sport had a decent power output in its day. Version one of the engine had changed little it its design from the MGA, and this KISS (Keep It Stupid Simple) approach was a good move by the maker. MGB Time Line 1921 - This was the year that 33 year-old Cecil Kimber (1888-1945) joined Morris Garages (whence "MG" originated). His passion was sports cars, body styling, coach building and sports cars. 1924 - The first MG car rolled off the production line. It was a a sporting four-seater / tourer on a modified Morris Oxford chassis. The inclusion of the factory telephone number - Abingdon 251 - provided the starting point for most MG's chassis VINs (Vehicle Identification Numbers). Good move MG! 1925 - The first purpose-built MG sports car was produced - it was a 1.5 litre 'Old No. 1' . Entered for the Land's End Trial where it won a gold medal. The vehicle still survives. 1926 - The year that saw the "Bullnose" Morris replaced by the pugnacious "Flatnose", complete with a conventional radiator. 1927 - A privately owned and entered MG 14/40 won a 100 km race at San Martin, Argentina. Not bad going on such atrocious roads! 1928 - MG Car Company was formed. First out was the MG 18/80 with a six-cylinder 2.5-litre ohc engine. The first MG Midget (M-type) 847cc ohc also made its appearance. 1929 - March of this year saw the production of the Midget. After several moves due to increasing demand, production finally settled at Abingdon-on-Thames, which became MG's home until 1980. 1930 - The MG Car Company Limited was formally incorporated. The 750cc EX120 set a world record of over 100mph, at Montlhery. 1931 - Supercharged racing C and F type Magna had a 1.3-litre 6-cyl. engine. 1932 - The new J-type Midget, 2 and 4-seat versions was announced. 1933 - The supercharged K3 MG Magnette won its class at the Mille Migela. Powered by an 1100cc six cylinder engine meant that this MG was the first non-Italian marque ever to win the team prize. 1934/1935 - The impressive K3 went on and won the 1100cc class at Le Mans and the EX 135, or Magic Magnette, was driven at over 200mph by Goldie Gardner. t went on to to break many more land speed records. 1936 - TA model, 1.3-litre. 1938 - WA model, 2.6-litre. 1939-45 In line with most manufacturing plants, car production was halted for the company to concentrate on munitions production during World War II. 1945 - Twin Carb model released. 1947 - Enter the Y-type saloon, complete with a 1250cc engine. The about-to-be HRH Duke of Edinburgh purchased a TC Midget in August of this year. 1948 - Newer version of the Twin Carb variant 1948 - After an impressive ride, an MG T-series took 3rd in the second Watkins Glen GP. 1950 - TD released to the market. 1952 - Austin and Nuffield merged to create an new entity called The British Motor Corporation (BMC). This pitted MG to an in-house family rival called the Austin-Healey! 1953 - TF announced, and TD revised. In addition, a new Magnette saloon arrived on the market with a 1.5-litre BMC B-series engine. 1954 - TF refinements announced. 1955 - Syd Enever's dashing design was released in the form of the MGA. It was the first MG sports car with all enveloping bodywork, and it went on to compete at Le Mans in the same year. 1956 - A watershed year indeed, as the 100,000th MG constructed turned out to be a left-hand drive MGA 1500. Truly, this was the pinnacle of success, or so everyone thought, but even better years lay ahead! 1957 - With Stirling Moss at the wheel , who was surprised that the EX181 achieved a record 245.64mph for the 1500cc class? 1959 - This year saw the new MG Magnette saloon arrive on the market ~ truly, a British Motor Corporation (BMC) model! Some might say a 'Camel' which to ant alien is a horse designed by a committee. 1960 - Perhaps the previous remark was somewhat unkind, if only because a special Twin Cam Coupe won the 2-litre class at Le Mans. 1961 - MGA refinements announced . 1961 - A completely new MG Midget was launched, bringing affordable motoring back to the MG enthusiast. 1962 - Note the upping of engine capacity, as the 1800cc MGB replaced the MGA. It was destined to be the flagship and mainstay of MG production for the next two decades. MG 1100 saloon ~ BMC 1100 also appeared on the scene. 1963 - Noting the comment in the made in the 1956 review, at 500,000 cars produced, MG had improved sales by five times in seven years. What a success story in an otherwise declining British Car Making market. Was there even better to come? 1964 - A 1300cc class wins the six-hour Touring Car Race at Brands Hatch. 1965 - Enter the MGB GT, which was to be labeled "the common man's Aston Martin". 1966 - MGB impressively won the Marathon de la Route 84-hour race, Nurburgring. 1967-1969 Another new release, this time the MGC ~ an MGB with a 6-cyl engine. 1968 - Could this be a crack in the dam wall?BMC and Leyland merged to form BLMC, which later shortened to British Leyland, or BL. Along with four other famous marques (Daimler, Jaguar, Triumph and Rover), MG formed part of a specialist car division. 1969 - 6-cylinder improvements announced. 1969 - HRH Prince Charles took delivery of an MGC GT (SGY 766F), which he was to later pass down to Prince William some 30 years later. What a hand-me-down! 1973 - Rover's massive V8 engine was transplanted into the MGB GT to create the MGB GT V8. However, all was not well as the World oil crisis was about to unfold, and this gas-guzzler could not have been announced at a worse time. Production did continue from 1973 - 1976. 1974 - Impact-resistant rubber bumpers fitted across the export range to comply with US legislation. 1975 - A one-off left-hand drive MGB roadster finished in Racing Green, with Jubilee GT livery and wheels was symbolically also t he 1,000,000th MG produced in October of this year. 1979 - It seems that MG had peaked and the rest looked to be a downhill path, with the demise of the MG Midget. 1980 - More bad news: end of the MGB. 1982 - Dragging the name down further, the MG name was used on a "sporty" version of the Metro and later on the Maestro etc. Talk about homogeneous! 1983 - Was this to be a last-ditched effort? A hefty-200bhp MG Metro Turbo driven by Tony Pond took three class pole positions, one class win, four fastest laps in the Trimoco Saloon Car Championship. Man, what a blast! 1984 - Hell's Teeth: The MG 6R4, mid-mounted V6, 4WD, swept all before it, but, wait, the competition rules were changed to exclude this monster. 1987 - David Gillanders won the UK National Rally Championship and Will Gollup won the Lydden Winter Rallycross Championship and took the European Rallycross title. Not sure what the heck he was driving though - maybe he was smoking his socks? 1992 - Last desperate attempt? The MG RV8 was launched as a step towards MG's rebirth as a sports car manufacturer. Fitted with an awesome 3.9-litre V8 engine, just 2000 were made until 1995. 1995 - But wait, the arrival of the MGF in 1995 heralded a new beginning. With its classic mid-engine/ rear-wheel design, world-class engines and good looks, the MGF was the MG for the '90s and the next millennium, or so we were told by the marketing boffins/bafoons. 1997 - The 'patient' has emigrated - MGF launched in Australia. 2000 - Following the buy-out by BMW, the company returned to British ownership on 9 May with shares held by MG Rover Group employees and its franchised dealers. With the family silverware now sold, how long could this once-proud stable survive? 2001 - Hello there! The MG ZR, ZS and ZT were launched, competing in a completely new market for MG. Simultaneously, racing programs were announced for the British Touring Car Championship, World Rally Championship and Le Mans. An entity called Qvale Automotive was created to provide the basis of a new "super car". 2002 - MG ZT sedan and ZT-T sports wagon launched in Australia. Also, the MGF was revised to become the MG TF. 2002 - The star of the show was the 1.5 millionth MG. It was a new 'Golden Jubilee' MG TF 160 roadster. 2004 - 80th anniversary of MG. Not much to party over though... 2005 - April: MG-Rover went into receivership. 2005 - May: In a deal reportedly worth in excess of £50 million, Nanjing Automobile Corporation (NAC) purchased the MG brand, the manufacturing rights to the MG range of vehicles and assets of the collapsed MG Rover organization. 2007 - March: First MG produced in Nanjing, China. 2007 - May: MG TF production planned to resume at the Longbridge factory. 2007 - December: Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp. (SAIC, which bought the Rover 75) and NAC to merge. 2008 - August: Production of 500 MG TF LE500, £16.4K, started at Longbridge, UK. Evolution and MB Quite surprisingly, even the dramatic decline in horsepower and unfortunate and styling changes, did not spell the end for the MGB, at least not quite yet. Indeed, the early 1970s witnessed the highest production numbers in the history of the Abingdon plant. Stiff competition together with rising production costs are what set MB on its trip to oblivion, and the top executives did not see if coming. Along with several other sectors, the British automobile industry was self-destructing, as much from its own disorganization as from the outside pressures of galloping global inflation and rising oil prices. As with the ship building industries, unionism was bordering on anarchistic, and the workers were demanding more money for less time. In these pre-Thatcher days, there was no money for increased wages or for proper redesign to cope with U.S. regulatory pressures. The Japanese were quick to cash in, bringing out the fabulous Datsun 240Z among many other new arrivals from the Far East. Over the next five model-years, the best that BL could muster for the U.S. was a series of Limited Editions that incorporated special decals, alloy wheels and custom-look steering wheels in hopes of attracting the few enthusiasts with a penchant for things British. The sad part was that even the company's top management could not, would not see the writing on the wall. In fact, in what seemed an amazing example of tactless stupidity, they chose the half-centenary week of celebrations to make the suicidal announcement that MG production would end in 12 months. Moreover, the Abingdon works would be closed down forever. Despite some gallant efforts to rescue the company, and perhaps save the factory, or even just the famous model, production of the legendary MGB ceased on Oct. 22, 1980. Of course, since 1908 several attempts have been made to resuscitate the corpse , with several disguises being offered to the gullible motoring public. The proud octagon appeared on badge-engineered BL Metro econoboxes. To add insult to injury, production vehicles from the Rover Group were served up as MGB sports cars simply by by inserting Rover engines in reproduction MGB body shells - shocking! There have been several further futile attempt to beguile the motoring public into buying what is pure badge-engineering. Not content with their own demise, Rover sedans have appeared as anything and everything. One of our European correspondents, Phil Llewellin recently pinged these pages that the marque deserved far better. That it could and maybe should have happened, even if in in some alternative universe is proved every day, as hundreds of Miatas, surely the heirs to the British sporting-car tradition exemplified by the MGB, trundle off Japanese production lines. The proof of the pudding they say is in the eating, and in this case a healthy number of the original MGB sports car are still found on U.S. roads, some in pristine concurs condition, some in hot, highly modified guises, and others simply struggling along as inexpensive options. What these many proud owners share is a connection back to motoring traditions of the past. They also gleam a sense of pleasure in driving a car that stands out and turns heads. No apologizes needed for its perhaps lumbering performance qualities on the modern highways of today. In other words, a lovely vehicle to own and drive, no ifs and definitely no buts ! So, Whats It Like to Own and Drive? Looking beyond the cost and relative ease of purchasing, then restoring and perhaps even upgrading it, there are two very sound reasons for the past and present popularity of the MGB. In the first place, it is fun to drive. Second, it is simple from a maintenance viewpoint. Very few cars on the roads provide the sheer driving pleasure found behind the wheel of an MGB. Slip into the low seat, then simply adjust to the fit of a-more-than-adequate cockpit that is adequate (yes, even for tall drivers, and with extended pedals to suit for those shorter than five foot). Engage the reliable manual choke (at least on the chrome-bumper models), switch on the ignition, and listen proudly as your uncomplicated engine roars into life. The MGB always sounds and feels perfect. Next task is to locate a country road, and wind your proud baby up through the gears - thanks to the very positive gear shift. You'll soon learn to do a swift heel-and-toe down shift into a tight corner, as you hit the throttle again going into the straight. Race track, where are you? Let the wind whip through your hair, and listen to the balanced-report from the ultra-willing four-cylinder motor. If you care to compare, no other classic car at this affordable price can begin to offer similar experience. Note too, that very few modern sports cars come close, and when they do it is at a massive capital outlay. From almost the beginning of the marque, MGs slogan was Safety Fast, and generations of enthusiasts can attest that it delivered on that promise. The MGB experience is not confined to driving - anyone who wishes to escape from on-board software problems, computer systems that take control without warning, and obscure owner manuals! Any car owner these days will know precisely what we refer to. The MGB reverts to a fast-disappearing world of basic electronic and guess-how-it-works mechanical system - remember those days when a sudden-stoppage was quickly corrected, and with no need of roadside assistance? Armed with a basic set of tools, an electrical test gage, and a simple feeler-gage,virtually any job, from a basic tune-up to a complete engine rebuild can be undertaken in your own garage over a couple of weekends. Ask Martin, he's an MGB fan! The Best Model to Buy? Statistics speak for themselves, and with the MGB, a glimpse at the sales and re-sales figures provides a definite clue as to which model is the most popular. Vehicles from model years 1966 and 1967 take the chequered flag without any doubt. This may have been because they maintained the classic body style, set off by the chrome bumpers and a handsome grille. Under the bonnet, the power plant had been adapted to a very reliable five-main-bearing design that output nearly 100 horsepower at the flywheel. Leather upholstered seats with lovely contrasting piping was the norm inside this collectible , and the dashboard was adorned with black crackle-finish paint and toggle switches, a retro look that evoked memories of fighter planes and the Battle of Britain. The design team had certainly done their job, and done it brilliantly too. In keeping with all classic cars, the best of the collection always attracts the highest prices, so it isnt surprising that these cars have the highest market values. However, even for the very best restoration of the most desirable vehicle, prices are still at a level that would not form the deposit for a half-decent Austin-Healey of the same vintage. Unrestored versions are occasionally found for $5000 or less, and the highest prices fetched at auction trade for less than $25,000. There are some very good examples to be found for between $10,000 to $15,000. In order of preferences, the earlier cars from the 1963 through 1965 model years, with their three-main-bearing engines, and known by their pull-handle doors (though a few five-main cars also had the pull handles), are considered almost as desirable because of their traditional features and scarcity value. At the other end of the chrome-bumper period, the 1973 cars, with more comfortable seats, a center console with storage compartment and armrest, practical headrests, and the restored glove box, might get the vote as the next level in the order of preference. Even the vinyl seats can be covered with a leather trim kit. There are some subtle distinctions. e ven among the rubber-bumper era cars. It seems that the 1977-80 cars are preferred to the 1975-76 cars, since they received front and rear anti-roll bars to correct handling problems.Moreover, some even had some interior and engine-compartment upgrades. The Limited Edition versions offered in the U.S. in 1979 and 1980 often turn up in very good condition with low mileage, having originally been bought by collectors and tucked away for investment reasons. Unfortunately, they have not appreciated as anticipated, and change ownership for less than a comparable-condition chrome-bumper edition, but they do represent an interesting variant. Differences in years, and even matching numbers and original specifications, don't fetch a lot of attention in the MG enthusiasts world. What does rank as important is the quality of bodywork, the condition of the paintwork, tidiness of interior trim and, right up there at the top, performance levels. These factors determine how much a particular MGB is really worth to the discerning buyer. A new trend has emerged which involves later models being retro-engineered to the 1967 standards. Then, they are upgraded with more recent innovations, such as the new Moss supercharger, but always to the owners specific tastes. In the states that enforce air quality standards, any car built in 1973 or before is likely going to experience the removal of emissions systems, upgrading of carburetors, the addition of a supercharger, and other modifications. With the array of engine variations among the various export markets, and from year to year for individual markets to cope with regulatory changes, a factory service parts list and one of the excellent workshop manuals are essential reading. This factor is worth factoring in when buying and working on a car that has been modified by previous owners. Parts ordered strictly by catalog and serial number may not always fit a modified car, but quite often they are adapted for use anyway. Nevertheless, with the large headcount of MGBs still on the road, brand-new parts of acceptable quality are readily available. Few hobbyists even bother to part out old MGs any more, since its generally just as easy to buy a new piece from the Moss Motors or Victoria British supply line. What to Look for When Buying Few problems on MGBs are likely beyond repair , because parts are readily available from several suppliers. You can even order complete body shells, but expect to pay. because parts don't come cheap. Here are some check points to consider when shopping around: Body and Chassis Rust This probably sounds familiar, but the most-often-heard warning about older cars, rust is enemy number one with the MGB. While this can be said of any body-on-frame sports car, it is more of a problem in the monocoque MGB. Body panels can be unbolted and repaired or replaced on an MGA or Triumph, for example, provided the frame is reasonably solid, then the car can be put restored to health. An advanced attack of rust can easily undermine structural reinforcements in the bodyshell, rendering the MGB almost worthless without extensive and intricate body work. Keep an eye out for these problems, and if you spot anything suspicious, the simply walk away. The area around the front and rear door pillars, and along the rocker panels must be scrutinized carefully. If there appears to be significant filler work or the doors no longer fit well, it is likely that internal rust has simply been covered up, and will continue to erode the vehicle until the car starts to literally disintegrate. Using of a magnet in suspect areas makes a good test tool, but nothing beats putting the car up on the hydraulic lift and making a pinpoint inspection of the undercarriage. Don't forget to look at all the nooks the nooks and crannies, and especially around the battery cradle. Check over the points where the rear suspension fastens to the bodyshell, as well as in the fender wells around the wheel arches. Engine Issues Engine issues are less problematic with the MGB, but it still makes good sense to have a technically sound mechanic look it over and test drive your potential purchase. A surprising number of MGBs remain untouched since new, so finding one that is in original condition is not uncommon. Such a car could be a good buy because thoughtless renovation has not been carried out. Remember to adjust the purchase price accordingly because you will likely need to carry out some repairs. The lower end of the engine assembly usually presents no problems. Make sure that the oil pressure runs above 25 psi at idle and 55-70 psi under normal driving conditions. The motor will use more oil as they age, but a simple oil top up will soon rectify this. It is a different story when it comes to the cylinder head side of the engine. Unfortunately, the head on the MGB has a tendency to crack, particularly in the area of number three cylinder around the exhaust valve - this is down to a design flaw. A compression check will soon tell your mechanic more about the internal workings of your engine. If the valves have been adjusted regularly and set correctly, then cracking problems are less likely. Aftermarket aluminum heads are a viable option these days. SU carburetors often ware, especially the throttle shafts. A quick test is to spray carb cleaner around the throttle shafts while the car is idling. If the idle quality improves, the shafts are worn and the carbs will need rebuilding, but this is a DIY workshop job for most hobbyists, and is probably worth doing as a routine maintenance matter on any older MGB. On single-carb models, c racked exhaust manifolds are fairly common , though somewhat rarer on earlier dual-carb models. Check for a hissing sound under throttle. These problems can often be repaired by a good machine shop, but finding a good used manifold is usually simpler, and a complete conversion to a dual-carb setup may be the safer bet. Suspension Components The suspension is quite rugged, but still should be inspected. On the front suspension, kingpins will last 100,000 miles if maintained properly, but less than 50,000 if not. Look for excessive play, especially at the bottom fulcrum. Often, lower wishbone bushings will be worn out, especially on rubber-bumper cars. Put the car on a jack stand and try to wiggle the wheel from top to bottom to spot problems in this area. With the brakes, the shoes can be problematical. This is usually because the wheel cylinders or the axle seals fail and soak them. This problem is more common on northern cars that get stored in the winter, as the seals stick themselves to their mating surfaces during storage. Sagging rear leaf springs are fairly commonplace. Look for leaves that are not separating, and an even ride height front to rear. The lever shocks, like the wiring, have a poor reputation, perhaps somewhat unfairly. While rear shocks seldom fail, fasteners may loosen over time. When front shocks wear, they can be replaced individually - quality replacements should always be used. A test the front shocks is to push down on the corner of the car; if any bounce is detected, particularly more than once, the shocks are indeed suspect. Tube-shock conversions for the front are not a good idea: most kits are improperly engineered. Rear tube shock conversions are okay, but not really necessary. Wire wheels and hubs should be inspected carefully for worn splines and broken spokes. With broken spokes, the best remedy is to replace the wheel; replacements will prove cheaper than wheel repair, and that is assuming you can find anyone who will relace a wire wheel in the first place. Previous Owner Efforts The biggest problems with the MGB tends to be centered around improvements and repairs done by previous owners, especially in the electrical system. The original factory wiring works just fine as long as connectors have not corroded. Its not uncommon to encounter fuel-pump substitutions, electric fans added and alternator conversions, often with poor attention to detail, bracketry and tacky wiring; these can all result in on going reliability problems. Shockingly, it is not uncommon to find new wires, even common house lamp cord, running alongside the wiring harness to address an electrical issue that may have been due to frayed wiring or corroded connectors. Reverting to the factory parts and installing and wiring them properly cures a lot of ills permanently. When to Walk Away If the car you fancy looks as if it will need a lot of time, effort and money, you will do well to extend your serach and look elsewhere. 