Keeping children safe from lead poisoning requires attention from everyone in a child's life. Lead is harmful to children because if they get enough of it in their bodies, it can limit their physical development. Lead is found in a variety of locations and products, such as old house paint, contaminated soil, ceramic bowls and plates, and hobby supplies. The biggest source of lead exposure for children is from old chipping house paint. The Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention program (CLPP) is funded through the State Department of Health Services.

The CLPP employs a team of health professionals, who provide services to parents, healthcare providers, and the general public. This team is comprised of: Registered Environmental Specialists, who conduct investigations to determine the source of lead contamination in the home. Public Health Nurses, who work with families to identify possible sources of contamination and to educate families on ways to reduce the risk of lead contamination. Health Educators, who conduct health fairs, workshops and special trainings for health care providers and the general public.

The CLPP program provides services in two major ways: Case Management and Source Identification for Lead Poisoned Children In cases where the child's blood lead level is 10 micrograms per deciliter or greater, a Public Health Nurse contacts the family either by phone or letter to provide education to prevent further lead poisoning. In cases where the blood lead level is 20 micrograms per deciliter or greater, a Public Health Nurse and a Registered Environmental Health Specialist visit the home of the child to provide education to prevent further poisoning and to attempt to identify the source of the lead poisoning. Outreach and Education to the Community and Targeted Groups The CLPP program focuses on provider education and screening requirements. The program can provide a variety of educational and informational information to health care providers, contractors, and the general public.

Individuals ages 21 through 64 who reside in a participating county, have incomes at or below 200% of the federal poverty level (FPL), and who are not eligible for Medi-Cal benefits could be eligible for CMSP benefits. If you are a single parent with minor children, have minor children and have become unemployed, receive Social Security Disability, are pregnant, or feel that you are disabled, you should apply for Medi-Cal benefits. The county will determine which programs you may qualify for. If your net countable income exceeds 200% of the federal poverty level (FPL), you will not be eligible for CMSP. If your net countable income is above the maintenance need level but below 200% FPL, you must pay a certain amount of your medical bills before CMSP will begin to pay. The CMSP has established maintenance needs levels depending on the size of your family. These maintenance need levels are specific income amounts that are allowed for your living expenses.

Any amount counted over these limits is considered excess and is your Share-of-Cost what you must pay or obligate to pay toward your medical expenses each month before CMSP will pay for services. When the county determines that you are eligible, you will receive an approval notice, and shortly after, a Benefits Identification Card (BIC). This is a plastic card with you name, identification number, and a magnetic strip on it. Beginning October 1, 2005, CMSP members will also receive a CMSP/Anthem Blue Cross identification (ID) card. In addition, beginning October 1, to receive CMSP benefits you will need to go to a CMSP/Anthem Blue Cross network provider to receive all services, except emergency services. If you receive non-emergency services from a medical provider who is not a part of the CMSP/Anthem Blue Cross provider network, you will be responsible for paying for those services.

It is your responsibility to present your BIC and your CMSP/Anthem Blue Cross ID cards to the provider when you get services. When you go to the doctor, pharmacist, or other medical provider, they will verify your eligibility for CMSP, check if you have a Share-of-Cost and how much is remaining on the Share-of-Cost, and determine if there are other applicable restrictions or limitations.

Eligibility for Other Programs When CMSP members are eligible for other benefit programs CMSP is the secondary payer to these other programs. This means that if another program covers a benefit that is also covered by CMSP, the other program will be expected to be the primary payer for the benefit. Drug Company Patient Assistance Programs (PAPs) for Hepatitis-C Medications CMSP members must apply for Drug Company Patient Assistance Programs (PAPs) to receive Hepatitis-C medications. CMSP will consider payment for Hepatitis-C medications only if the CMSP member provides a document showing eligibility for available PAPs has been denied by the manufacturers. Information about drug company PAPs is available on the Internet at www.helpingpatients.org/index.cfm.

Medical providers may also be able to provide information. Breast and Cervical Cancer Treatment Program (BCCTP) Beginning October 1, 2005 CMSP members must apply for benefits under the Breast and Cervical Cancer Treatment Program when breast or cervical cancer treatment is determined medically necessary. CMSP will continue to cover all appropriate diagnostic services associated with these conditions. Care managers with BC Life will assist CMSP members with breast and cervical cancer in getting connected with BCCTP. Benefit coverage under BCCTP provides full scope Medi-Cal.

California Aids Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) CMSP members must apply for the California AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) to receive all HIV medications. A one-time, 30-day supply of the medication will be provided to assure continuity of care. Following the one-time supply, CMSP will consider payment for HIV medications only if the CMSP member provides a document showing eligibility for ADAP has been denied. Information about ADAP is available by calling (888) 311-7632 or (888) 575-ADAP. Information about ADAP is available on the Internet at the Public Health Service Bureau. California Family Planning, Access, Care and Treatment Program (Family PACT) CMSP members must apply for Family Planning, Access, Care and Treatment Program (Family PACT) to receive contraceptives. A one-time, 30-day supply of the medication will be provided to assure continuity of care.

Following the one-time supply, CMSP will consider payment for contraceptives only if the CMSP member provides a document showing eligibility for Family PACT has been denied. Information about Family PACT is available by calling (800) 942-1054. If the programs listed above do not provide a document showing eligibility has been denied, CMSP clients may use the Record of Denied Program Eligibility Form provided by MedImpact or Anthem Blue Cross. This completed form must be submitted to CMSP via fax at (916) 848-3349.

A formal document from the program showing eligibility has been denied will also be accepted.