Analyzing Plate Tectonics Convection Activity - Student Assignment We have designed this fascinating activity in order to help you give your students a better understanding of the Earth's structure and how it creates tectonic plate movement. Please note that this activity is aimed at students in grades 5-8 . Preamble Mission: How do you get your students to visualize the huge convection cells of solid material circulating within Earth's mantle that create tectonic plate movement? Answer: Create miniature convection cells within a desktop flow chamber so that students can see firsthand how convection cells are created and how they work in reality. As with most things, the key then to explaining how convection cells drive plate tectonics is to keep it simple and straight forward.

While an enormous amount of information about Earth's interior structure exists, and is really interesting too, but it's not critical for an understanding of basic plate tectonics. In other words, don't overload your students! Teacher's note The brighter students will probably question why the hottest part of Earth, the inner core, is solid, and why the outer core, which is cooler, is liquid. Here's the simple answer - the immense atmospheric pressure at the inner core keeps it solid even though it is incredibly hot. The outer core is under much less pressure and therefor remains liquid even though it is cooler. The Basics A typical cross section of Earth would reveal three major internal structures, namely: the core at the center, the mantle above the core and finally, the Earth's crust. Let's start at the center with the core.

This comprises two distinct regions, referred to as the inner core and outer core. The inner core is solid, and the outer core is liquid (see "Teacher's note" above). Now consider the core as one area located in the center of Earth generating enormous heat. The mantle, is formed by an area of slowly moving convection cells of solid material between the core and the crust, and is divided into several regions based on temperature and plasticity. Looking at it another way, consider the mantle as a single contiguous region between the core and the crust where convection cells form. Earth's "skin" consists of two parts, the oceanic and continental crusts. First, let's deal with the oceanic crust, or the lower skin layer, which is made of basalt, a dense, heavy material that results from magma solidified when it connects with cold seawater.

All Earth's ocean floors are basalt. The second and upper skin is the continental crust. This is much less dense and also lighter than the oceanic crust, and it is the basic building block of all of the Earth's continents. These two skin layers are referred to as the oceanic and continental plates. The generic tile "tectonic plates" is also applied. Pulling it all together, heat from the Earth's core creates convection cells within the mantle.

The tops of these cells function somewhat like conveyor belts, causing slow movement of Earth's tectonic plates. This movement is the key concept in the theory of plate tectonics. Professor X will now take over in terms of the detail for our experiment for the viewers: Components: Ring stand Incandescent desk lamp with 75-W bulb Rheoscopic fluid , and French square bottle Preparation: Cautionary note : If you decide to use your own French square bottle , make sure it is made of clear glass. Do not use a plastic bottle. Rheoscopic fluid flow chamber set up: Shake the bottle of rheoscopic fluid to ensure it is thoroughly mixed.

Fill the French square bottle completely with rheoscopic fluid, being careful not to leave any air pockets. Screw the cap on tightly. Place the bottle on the ring stand. Place the lamp directly under the center of the bottle Do not turn on the lamp. Procedure : Begin by asking the class to share what they know about Earth's structure.

Here are some suggested questions: How thick is Earth's crust? What is under Earth's crust? What is the inside of Earth like? Now, describe Earth's 3 major internal structures-the core, mantle, and crust. Tell the students that the thickness of the core is 6,840 km. Then, the thickness of the mantle is 2,920 km.

Throw in the comparison that the width of the United States 4,626 km - this will help them remember. Use a local map to make the figures more relevant to your students. For example, the continental crust at its thickest point is no more than 70 km, with the oceanic crust at its thickest measuring about 7 km. Have your students pick a location, say 70 km from where they live. Now you can relate this distance on a map of the United States and compare it to the thickness of the crust, relative to the thickness of the mantle and the core. Time to impress, so gather your students around the apparatus. Turn on the lamp and let them see for themselves the convection cells begin to form.

Awesome - Convection cells as observed in the flow chamber! THIS SECTION EDITED TO HERE Now, everybody to review how the heat from the core causes the mantle to move by convection. Convection is the process of material heating and rising, then cooling and falling. This process creates the cells of circulating mantle material that act as conveyor belts pushing, pulling, and carrying the tectonic plates. This is the motion scientists believe causes tectonic plates to move. Ask your students to record their observations. Time to emphasize to your students that the demonstration is intended only to show the pattern of movement in a convection cell. The fluid in the chamber is moving very rapidly, while the convection cells in the mantle move incredibly slowly.

In fact, what students see happen in a brief second in the chamber can take millions of years in the Earth's mantle. It should also be noted that the division between cells in the chamber occurs directly above the source of heat. Several theories abound to explain the uneven heating required to create such a situation in the mantle, but primarily, scientists are in general agreement that the convection cells do form and do move tectonic plates. Time to switch off the light and allow the apparatus to cool. Dismantle the apparatus and return it to storage. Rheoscopic fluid is reusable. Funnel it back into its original bottle and replace the cap, or simply leave it in the French square until the next demonstration.

Final discussion questions: Lead your students through the following questions. Let them refer to their notes where necessary. What sits at the center of Earth? A. A heat-producing core. What is the mantle? A. An area of solid material surrounding the core. What is formed in the mantle as a result of the heat from the core? A. Convection cells.

What are tectonic plates? A. Portions of Earth's crust that are moving in various directions at various rates. What part do convection cells play in the movement of tectonic plates? A. They act as conveyor belts, pushing and pulling the plates.

Imagine a large pot of soup boiling over the coals. Just about every ingredient is included, so as the mix simmers over the heat, several items will surface and then disappear from sight. So too with planet Earth. Our lithosphere is the brittle outer layer of solids, forming planet Earth.

Tectonics plates form segments of the lithosphere. But the lithosphere incorporates crust - including rocks from the continents and the ocean floor - as well as the upper section of the mantle that lies immediately beneath the crust. Though different in mineralogy, both are very similar mechanically. In essence, they act as one plate. The most influential forces that mold the lithosphere eminate from plate tectonics. When plates collide, the lithosphere on the one plate face is forced downward into the molten mantle.

This process, called subduction, bends the plate downward by up to 90 degrees. The subducting lithosphere then cracks extensively, triggering frequent earthquakes in sub-rock slab. This in turn, causes the subducted part to fully break off, and submerge deep into the Earth as the plates above it change their orientation. Beneath the lithosphere is a hotter, softer layer of solid rock, the asthenosphere . Rather than cracking like ordinary surface rocks, the material of the asthenosphere tends to degenerate slowly under stress, similar to the putty surrounding glass.

This then enables the lithosphere to move across or through the asthenosphere under the forces of plate tectonic movement. In turn, it also means that earthquake fizzures extend through the lithosphere, but not beyond it. However, the lithosphere is not totally rigid, but is somewhat flexible. And, it flexes when extreme loads are pl aced on it, or removed from it. Ice-age glaciers are typical of this load. For example, i n Antarctica the ice cap has pushed the lithosphere well below sea level today. Canadian and Scandinavian experiences suggest that the lithosphere is still rising through the removal of the glaciers some 10,000 years ago. Here are some other types of loading : Volcano development Sediment deposition Rising sea levels Large lakes and reservoirs And other examples of unloading : Excavation of canyons and valleys (roads, railroads and housing) Mountain erosion (deforestation and plant clearing) Lowering of sea level Evaporation of large water bodies The flexing of the lithosphere from these causes is relatively small occurrence, usually much less than a kilometer but nevertheless measurable.

We can replicate the lithosphere using simple engineering physics, as if it were a metal beam, so as to get an idea of its thickness. We can also study the behavior of seismic waves and place the base of the lithosphere at depths where these waves begin to slow down, indicating softer rock. These flexural and seismic models suggest that the lithosphere ranges from less than 20 kilometers in thickness near the mid-ocean ridges to as much as 50 km in old oceanic regions. However, under the continents the lithosphere is very much thicker, as much as 150 km. Recordings of the Earth's heat and lab studies of rocks suggest that the base of the lithosphere occurs where the temperature reaches about 600ºC. Some experts argue the other way, and suggest that the lithosphere must begin where actual melting of the rocks is possible; that would mean about 1200ºC and a "thermal lithosphere" about twice as thick as the mechanical lithosphere.

Continental Drift Explained Continental drift is a geological theory which holds that the relative positions of the continents on the earth's surface have altered significantly through geologic time. Though first proposed by American geologist Frank Bursley Taylor in a lecture in 1908, the first detailed theory of continental drift was proposed by German meteorologist and geophysicist Alfred Wegener in 1912. On the basis of geology, biology, climatology, and the alignment of the continental shelf rather than the coastline, he believed that during the late Paleozoic and early Mesozoic eras - about 275 to 175 million years ago - all the continents were united into a vast super continent, which he called Pangaea . Later, Pangaea broke into two super continental masses- Laurasia to the north, and Gondwanaland to the south. The present continents began to separate further in the latter Mesozoic era about 100 million years ago, and more or less forming the shapes that we are familiar with to the present day. As additional evidence, Wegener cited the unusual presence of coal deposits in the South Polar regions, glacial features in present-day equatorial regions, and the jigsaw fit of the opposing Atlantic continental shelves.

He also pointed out that a flexible layer in the earth's interior must exist to accommodate vertical adjustments caused by the creation of new mountains and by the wearing down of old mountains by erosion. He theorized that the earth's rotation caused horizontal adjustment of rock in this "plastic" layer, which resulted in the on going continental shift. The frictional drag along the leading edges of the drifting continents results in mountain building. Wegener's theory stirred considerable controversy during the 1920s. South African geologist A. L. Du Toit, in 1921, strengthened the argument by adding more specific details that correlated geological and paleontological similarities on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean. In 1928, Scottish geologist Arthur Holmes suggested that thermal convection in the mantle was the mechanism that drove the continental movements.

American geologist David Griggs performed scale model experiments to demonstrate these mantle movements. However, the theory of continental drift was not generally accepted, particularly by American geologists, until the 1950s and 60s, when a group of British geophysicists reported on magnetic studies of rocks from many places and from each major division of geologic time. They found that for each continent, the magnetic pole had apparently changed position through geologic time, forming a smooth curve, or pole path, particular to that continent. The pole paths for Europe and North America could be made to coincide by bringing the continents together.

Continental Shift And Tsunami's While we may not always be aware of the continental shift, quite often there are ominous warnings prior to these happenings. Let's consider them: Definition The Latin word for the smaller waves experienced across the Italian coast was, Fillius Sum Sunamus which literallymeans, son of tsunamis , inspired by the Japanese word similar to " tsunami " from associations with the shogun of Japan. Tsunami derives from the Japanese words (% dj) meaning harbor ("tsu", % ) and wave ("nami", ). tsunami, tunami, f. tsu harbour + nami waves. - Oxford English Dictionary]. So what causes a Tsunami ? there are several potential culprits, namely: Starting with earthquakes, large asteroid ormeteoroid impacts, mass movements below or above the water, volcanic eruptions and other underwater explosions, landslides. Testing with nuclear weapons at sea also hold the potential to generate a tsunami .

Technically speaking, a tsunami is a series of waves created when a body of water, such as an ocean, is rapidly displaced. The effects of a tsunami can range from hardly unnoticeable to completely devastating. For the plural, one can either follow ordinary English practice and add an "s", or use an invariable plural as in Japanese. The name " tsunami " was coined by fishermen who returned to port only to find the area surrounding their harbor devastated.

Strangely, they had not been aware of any wave surge on the open water. Tsunamis are common throughout Japanese history with approximately 195 events in Japan having been recorded. A tsunami has a much smaller amplitude - or wave height - offshore, and a very long wavelength (often hundreds of kilometers long), which is why they generally pass unnoticed at sea, forming only a passing "hump" in the ocean. Tsunamis have been historically referred to as tidal waves because as they approach land, they take on the characteristics of a violent onrushing tide rather than the sort of cresting waves that are formed by wind action upon the ocean (with which people are more familiar). Since they are not actually related to tides the term is considered misleading and its usage is discouraged by oceanographers.

Contents A Causes B Signs of an approaching tsunami C Warnings and prevention D Tsunami in History E See also F References G External links g.1 Articles and websites g.2 Images and video g.3 Fiction Causes A tsunami can be generated when the plate boundaries abruptly deform and vertically displace the overlying water. Such large vertical movements of the Earths crust can occur at plate boundaries. Subduction earthquakes are particularly effective in generating tsunami . Also, one tsunami in the 1940's in Hilo, Hawaii, was actually caused by an earthquake on one of the Aleutian Islands in Alaska. That earthquake measured 7.8 on the Richter Scale. Tsunami take place when a huge earthquake occurs, forcing the plates beneath the seal to push up dramatically, which in turn creates a huge wave from the energy.

It was only in the 1950s that scientists discovered that larger tsunami than previously believed possible could be caused by the likes of landslides, explosive volcanic action, and impact events when they reach the ocean. These phenomena rapidly displace large volumes of water, as energy from falling debris or expansion is transferred to the water into which the debris falls. Tsunami caused by these mechanisms, unlike the ocean-wide tsunami caused by some earthquakes, generally dissipate quickly and rarely affect coastlines far away from the source. Such events can give rise to much larger local shock waves, called solitons , such as the landslide at the head of Lituya Bay which produced a water wave estimated at 50 m by 150 m and reached as high as 524 m up local mountains. However, an extremely large landslide could generate a mega-tsunami that might have ocean-wide implications. Geological evidence points to massive tsunami activity in Earth's past. Indications of an approaching tsunami The monument to the victims of tsunami at Laupahoehoe, Hawaii. Unfortunately, there is little or no advance warning of an approaching tsunami .

However, since earthquakes are often a precursor to a tsunami , an earthquake felt near or actually in the sea may be taken as a reliable indication that a tsunami is on the way. Time to batten down the hatches! When the first part of a tsunami to reach land arrives in the form of a trough rather than a crest of the wave, the water along the shoreline may recede dramatically, exposing areas that are normally always covered by sea.

As we all know, after a trough comes a crest, and this can serve as an advance warning of the approaching tsunami . Moreover, the warning arrives shortly before the crest, which can be expected imminently (seconds to minutes later). The devastating tsunami that occurred in the Indian Ocean in 2004 was actually receding, and did not represent a threat to African coastline as was originally predicted. Tsunamis occur most frequently in the Pacific Ocean, but all oceans are capable of generating the phenomenon.

That's because they are possible wherever large bodies of water are found, and this includes fresh water lakes inland, typically being triggered by landslides. Insignificant tsunamis , are not easily detectable without specialized equipment, and occur usually as a result of minor earthquakes and other seismic events. Warnings and prevention Tsunami wall at Tsu, Japan At this point in time tsunamis cannot be prevented or even precisely predicted. However, there are some warning signs of an impending tsunami , and there are many systems being developed and in use to reduce the damage that can result from a tsunami . On arrival, and where the leading edge of the tsunami wave is its trough, the water will pull back from the coast to approximately half of the wave's action period before the wave's actual arrival. If the slope of the the threatened coastal seabed is shallow in profile, the wave recession can exceed many hundreds of meters. This often proves fatal, as interested onlookers unaware of the impending danger may remain at the shore as they see no immediate threat.

Indeed some might even take to low-water beach combing thinking nothing is out of the ordinary. Animals on the other hand are thought to have a sixth sense and will make a hasty retreat for higher ground. Dogs are renowned for howling before and during a tsunami, probably down to their sensitive hearing and the change in air pressure. Regions with a high risk of tsunami may use tsunami warning systems to detect upcoming events. Then, they can warn the general population before the wave reaches land and caused wide-spread devastation. In some communities on the west coast of the United States, which is prone to Pacific Ocean tsunami, warning signs advise people where to run in the event of an incoming tsunami . Computer models can roughly predict tsunami arrival and impact based on information about the event that triggered it and the shape of the sea floor (bathymetry) and coastal land (topography).

Nature has its own early warning system in place, animals! Most animals sense danger and retreat to higher ground before the water problem arrives. The Lisbon quake is the first to be documented of this phenomenon in Europe. So too, it was noted in Sri Lanka in the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake. Some scientists speculate that animals may have an ability to sense subsonic Rayleigh waves from an earthquake minutes or hours before a tsunami strikes shore. Oh that we could just communicate with our fellow inhabitants on planet Earth instead of wiping them out wholesale! Again in Sri Lanka, a number of elephants were observed retreating rapidly away from the impending tsunami as it approached the coast. This was no mass panic reaction, but rather the collective reaction of a well-disciplined and co-ordinated group of intelligent creatures to a problem that threatened their very existence.

Meanwhile, many humans reacted by following the freak low tide out to sea. At this point in time it is impossible to prevent a tsunami , although in some particularly tsunami -prone countries some preventative long ago began implementing extensive programs of building tsunami walls of up to 13.5 feet (4.5 meters) high to help protect densely populated coastal areas. Many other large communities have designed and built floodgates and channels to redirect the water from regular incoming high tides. Holland is a very low-lying country with much of the land well below sea level. For centuries now, the Dutch have built an elaborate network of coastal defenses and Dikes to channel water away from towns, villages and cities, while also protecting cultivated land. Some locations in the path of the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami escaped almost unscathed as a result of the tsunamis energy being repulsed by rows of coconut palms and mangroves vegetation. This proves beyond any doubt that the likely effects of a tsunami can be influenced by natural factors such as tree cover on the shoreline.

Tall man-made structures such as promenade walks and high-rise buildings can also make a material difference. A good example of positive influence occurred in the village of Naluvedapathy in India's Tamil Nadu region. This area experienced few deaths and minimal damage as the tidal wave broke first on a forest of more than 80,000 trees planted along the shoreline in 2002 in a successful bid to enter the Guinness Book of Records. How visionary was that? Many environmentalists have proposed tree planting along stretches of seacoast which are prone to tsunami risks. While it would take some years for the trees to grow to a useful size, such plantations could offer a much cheaper and longer-lasting means of tsunami mitigation than the costly and environmentally destructive method of erecting artificial barriers. The answers it seems are the advancement of natural solutions - working alongside nature for once!

Tsunami in History Tsunamis are certainly not a new phenomenon. Historically speaking they are anything but rare either, with at least 25 major tsunami occurring in the last century alone - could this have resulted from man's sudden discovery of nuclear weapons - see "Conclusion". Many incidents were recorded in the Asia-Pacific region - with a particular focus on Japan. The Boxing Day Tsunami on Boxing Day 2004, caused approximately 300,000 deaths and many more injuries. The destruction of the Egyptian city of Alexandria in A.D.365 is now thought to have been caused by a tsunami. Who knows how many more cities and even civilizations have been completely wiped out by the awesome power of our oceans - don't forget that water covers around 70% of the planet's surface!

Maybe the fabled city of Atlantis lies out there on the ocean floor bearing witness to whatever terrible fate befell it?

Conclusion Considering that we have only come to accept Continental shift in the last 70 years or so, we have really got off to a slow start when it comes to understanding what happens beneath our oceans. Knowledge is priceless, and is waiting for us to grasp it. Considering that the future shapes of our continents is evolving right at this moment, perhaps we should be investing more time in understanding the environment surrounding us. During the last half-century we have, as a species been anything but concerned about our "foundations".

Each time we detonate a nuclear device at sea, we are provoking the elements at force beneath the water. Let's ask the question: How many devices have been tested that could have life-altering consequences for Earth's inhabitants? Each one released the equivalent of several tons of TNT. Then what about all the wars fought at sea? The sinking of ships, both naval and merchant - the depth-charges rolled over board from surface craft in pursuit of submarines?

The politicians around the world will never admit to any of the atrocities carried out in the name of weapons development. Calculate roughly what the US, the old USSR, France, Britain, China, India, Pakistan and Israel have released into the atmosphere by way of tests in their desserts or the irreparable harm caused to our oceans and their floors. Each one of these events has the capacity to impact on the Continental plates in ways we do not understand. Once the bomb has exploded, it's too late to stop the damage. Each person on the planet needs to ask him or herself just what legacy they are leaving for future generations.

Then, they need to elect responsible leaders to take us forward in harmony with one another and with nature too. Perhaps it's not too late to save some of the fast-vanishing species after all? Let's end on a note of hope, rather than despair. As mankind sue of science improves, perhaps we will find solutions that will help us shape things better than now. We talk about possessing the knowledge to deflect incoming space debris with laser technology.

We even have plans to blast apart threatening asteroids headed our way, but maybe we should develop magnetic defenses first rather than exporting a "Nuke 'em" philosophy into space? Our human clock is ticking, but the planet's own internal clock has its own agenda when it comes to Continental plates and their movement. Right now, the planet remains in control and not mankind!