The President of one of the most wealthy and powerful states, the United States of America (sometimes abbreviated as POTUS) plays the role of the head of state and head of government of the United States. The president is at the head of the executive branch of the federal government. It means that he exercises supervisory control over the heads of department and in the implementation and execution of laws. The role of the POTUS is to enforce national law as given in the Constitution and written by Congress. Article Two of the Constitution of the United States establishes the president as commander-in-chief of the armed forces and enumerates powers specifically granted to the president. This plenary power is including the power to sign into law or veto bills passed by both houses of Congress and to create a Cabinet of advisors. The president is also allowed to grant pardons or reprieves, and, with the "advice and consent" of the Senate, to make treaties, appoint federal officers, ambassadors, and federal judges, including Justices of the Supreme Court. As with the officials and officers (both elected to office and those who are appointed) in the other branches of the United States government, the Constitution restrains the president with a set of checks and balances designed to prevent any individual or group from taking absolute power. The president of the United States is elected indirectly through the United States Electoral College. The term to be served by each president is four years, with a limit of two terms. The rule on presidential term was imposed by the Twenty-second Amendment to the Constitution which has been ratified in the year 1951. Under this system, each state of the county is allocated a number of electoral votes, proportionate to the size of the state's delegation in both houses of Congress combined. The District of Columbia is also granted electoral votes, per the Twenty-third Amendment to the Constitution. This is in lieu of the fact that the District of Columbia is a very significant district in the United States. Voters in almost all of the states choose a presidential candidate through the plurality voting system, whom then receives all of that state's electoral votes. A simple majority of electoral votes is needed to become elected as the president. I no candidate is able to receive that many votes, the election is thrown to the House of Representatives, which votes by state delegation. While sitting in office as the president of the United States, the White House in Washington, D.C. serves as the place of residence for the president. The president can also bring his family to live with him in the White house. He is also entitled to use its staff and facilities, including medical care, recreation, housekeeping, and security services. Indeed, living in the White House is one of the exclusive benefits which is only given to the president. One of two Boeing VC-25 aircraft, which are extensively modified versions of Boeing 747-200B airliners, serve as long distance travel for the president, and are referred to as Air Force One while the president is on board. A salary of $400,000, along with other benefits, is paid to the president annually. Some would say that the salary of the president in the United States should be sufficient. In this way, the president would not be tempted to enter into anomalous acts of abusing his power to augment his income. Since the adoption of the incumbent United States Constitution, forty-two individuals have been elected or succeeded into the presidency. The first and very famous president, being George Washington, serving forty-three different presidencies altogether (since Grover Cleveland was the twenty-second and twenty-fourth president(s) of the U.S.A.). The current president is Barack Obama. George Bush, a very controversial president was inaugurated on January 20, 2001 to a first term and on January 20, 2005 to a second. His term expired at noon on January 20, 2009, after which he will be replaced by the winner of the 2008 presidential election. He became controversial because of the fact that he declared war against the states of the bombers of the 9/11. From the middle of the twentieth century, the United States' status as asuperpower has led the American president to become one of the world's most well-known and influential public figures. Indeed, a person from another nation would know (or would be expected to know) who the American president is. This is because the face and the acts of the American president are very much publicized by the media - from becoming the headline in NY Times, to becoming the cover of Time Magazine to becoming one of the daily topics of CNN. U.S. presidential elections are regarded by many as events of international as well as national significance and are closely followed in many places around the world. In order to make sure that there is a smooth transition of power, there is a need for a considerable span of time between the election and and the swearing in of the new period. This is to ensure that the incoming president is prepared enough for the turnover of the power and responsibility of leading the nation. New presidents have the task of choosing cabinet members and other key administration members, as well as get up to speed on security issues and simply began the task of physically moving a new team to Washington. The reason for the privilege of the presidents when it comes to choosing who will lead the governmental departments is to make sure that they can work well together with the executive branch. For the old and outgoing president, this length of time in office is referred to as "the lame duck" period. This is when he is finishing his term and waiting for the next president to replace him. The term "lame duck" is taken from Wall Street. This term has always been used to refer to people who could not pay off their loans--persons, like the lame duck president, without much capital. The relevant law is the 20th Amendment. Before its enactment in the year 1933, the new president was not sworn until the month of March following the election. However, it was perceived that there was too much time which made it not beneficial to the transactions of the government. This long delay caused problems. After the election of Abraham Lincoln which was called the secession winter, President James Buchanan watched as secessionists seized federal forts and arsenals. By the month of March 1861, when President Lincoln finally took his oath and occupied his office, the Civil War was nearly lost before it even began. Seven decades or almost 70 years later, in the middle of the Great Depression, the lame duck period of president Herbert Hoover seemed far too long. Indeed, a very long lame duck period would not be beneficial, especially for a state which needs economic development and transition. Presidents Hoover and Franklin Roosevelt barely communicated and the country waited for decisive action from its newly chosen leader. In response, the 20th Amendment was proposed and adopted. The 20th Amendment changed and moved the date of inauguration from March to "noon on the 20th day of January." This Amendment made the inauguration earlier than the previous schedule. Under the Constitution, the old president continues to hold full power and authority through 11:59:59, and then power shifts at noon. On the other hand, Article II, Section 1 requires that the new president, before executing any duties, take a prescribed oath or affirmation. The oath is more than a symbolic transfer of power to the new president because during the oath, the president says and owns his duties and responsibilities to the people and to the United States of America. To be able to avoid a constitutional power vacuum, the Inauguration Day program is certain to schedule the swearing in for as close as possible to noon. In this way, at exactly noon time, the new president can already exercise his power. The Chief Justice of the United States typically administers the oath, although the Constitution does not require that the oath be performed by the Chief Justice. The inauguration of the president is often one of the most celebrated events in the history of the United States of America. The word contained in the oath specified in Article II do not include four words recited in all recent inaugurations: "So help me God." The first known use of the phrase "So help me God" in a presidential inauguration was by Chester Arthur, on September 22, 1881, following the death in office of President James Garfield. In 2008, atheist activist Michael Newdow unsuccessfully sued in federal court to block the use of the phrase "So help me God" in Barack Obama's inauguration. Some proponents wanted to eliminate the words because they seemed to advocate religion and can be against the inviolability of the separation between the church and the state. On recorded three occasions, presidents (Arthur, Coolidge, and Obama) have re-taken oaths after questions were raised about first attempts. The most recent do-over occurred in 2009 after Chief Justice Roberts got the oath's words out of order in the public inauguration ceremony. To give few examples on who the popular presidents are, the faces of four presidents whic can be found on Mount Rushmore are perfect examples. The four figures carved in stone on Mount Rushmore represent the first 150 years of American history. The birth of the United States of America as a strong nation was guided by the vision and courage of George Washington. George Washington was the first president of the United States. The next president who had his face on Mount Rushmore is Thomas Jefferson. Thomas Jefferson always had dreams of something bigger, first in the words of the Declaration of Independence and later in the expansion of our nation through the Louisiana Purchase. The Declaration of Independence is one of the biggest achievements of the United States of America as a nation which is attributed to Thomas Jefferson. Another president whose face can be found engraved on the mountain was Abraham Lincoln. Preservation of the union was paramount to Abraham Lincoln but a nation where all men were free and equal was destined to be. Theodore Roosevelt's face was also there. Theodore Roosevelt, being influential as he is, was the name behind the popular toys among children, the teddy bear. At the turn of the Twentieth Century Theodore Roosevelt saw that in the nation of the United States was the possibility for greatness. Indeed, most people from all over the world would have American dream as one of their biggest goals in life. Almost every individual would desire to visit the United States and be able to experience American life. The nation was changing from a rural republic to a world power. The ideals of these presidents laid a foundation for our nation as solid as the rock from which their figures are carved. Each man possessed great skills and leadership of the brand our nation needed for the times. Today millions of visitors come to see Mount Rushmore and gain inspiration from these four great men. Barack Hussein Obama II, also known as Barack Obama (born August 4, 1961) is the First Black President of United States of America. His election to office was a milestone in the history of the United States because most of the former presidents are white. Obama is the first person who had African-American descent to be nominated by a major American political party for the office of the President, and the first person of African American descent to be elected President of the United States of America. Barack Obama is a graduate of Columbia University and Harvard Law School. Barack Obama was also the first black person to serve as president of the Harvard Law Review. He was very active in civil rights and other organizational activities. Obama worked as a community organizer and practiced as a civil rights attorney before serving three terms in the Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004. He also became part of the academe. He taught constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004. Prior to running for the presidency, he also bid for a seat in the U.S. House of Representatives. Following an unsuccessful bid for a seat in the U.S. House of Representatives in 2000, he announced his campaign for the U.S. Senate in January 2003. After a primary victory in March 2004, Obama delivered the keynote address at the Democratic National Convention in July 2004. He was elected to the Senate in November 2004 with 70 percent of the vote. Obama became part of the legislative body as one of the senators of the United States. As a member of the Democratic minority in the 109th Congress, he helped in the creation of legislation to control conventional weapons and actively supported the promotion of greater public accountability in the use of federal funds. He also made official trips to Eastern Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. This was in lieu of ensuring that international relations would be one of his well-known field. During the 110th session of the US Congress, President Obama helped create legislation regarding lobbying and electoral fraud, climate change, nuclear terrorism, and care for returned U.S. military personnel. Indeed, while he was part of the Senate of the United States, the current president of US created various impacts in the legislation. Obama decided to start his presidential campaign back in 2007. Obama announced his presidential campaign to the general public in February 2007, and was formally nominated at the 2008 Democratic National Convention with Delaware senator Joe Biden as his running mate. Obama won the 2008 presidential election and will take the oath of office and become the 44th President of the United States on January 20, 2009. 