Ten 'Commandments' for Home Security in Bellevue, WA Crime is an opportunistic pursuit. Thieves regard break-ins as a dare, so they gain entry, often quite easily due to carelessness of homeowners. Follow these ten security guidelines, and you will drastically reduce the chance of unlawful entry at your home. 1. Keep the entry doors to your property locked, even when you are at home. We call it the 24/7 syndrome. Believe it or not, most unlawful entry is achieved by the crook simply walking through your front or back door, and more often than not, the doors are unlocked!

Some sobering statistics to digest: 51% of break-ins occur during daylight. 49% occur after dark. Countrywide, there are 8,600 break-ins a day (=1 every 13 seconds). 2. Deadbolt all exterior entrances, as many burglaries are the result of forcible entry. Don't go less than a full 1" throw bolt. Treat the door from the garage to inside the house as an exterior door. Exterior doors should be solid, 1-3/4" hardwood, with secure frames.

3. Intruders don't like being in the spotlight. The greatest fear for an intruder fear is being seen, so don't give them a a hiding place. Good exterior lighting around your perimeter creates a psychological barrier. Consider motion activated light fixtures. All porches and other entrances should be lit with at least 40-watt bulbs. Trim back the overgrown bushes, tree limbs, or landscaping to the height of porches or windows. 4. Glass can weaken your security. Use grates or grilles to protect door locks less than an arm's length away from a glass panel, Sidelights require protection too.

Install double cylinder deadbolts that need to be opened with a key from the inside as well as the outside. A sliding glass door is lifted into position when installed - and easily lifted out if you're not careful. Adjust screw in the door track to limit clearance. Add a wooden dowel or broom handle too. Retrofit ground floor-level windows with locking hardware.

5. " While you're on vacation, I'll just let myself in." Make your home looked lived in at all times. During the winter, arrange to have snow shoveled. Install automatic timers to turn on different lights at different times. Have a trusted neighbor pick up your mail and newspapers. And, occasionally use your garbage cans. Most break-ins occur between 10am and 3pm. Put a radio or a TV on a timer.

Turn the ringer on the telephone down. 6. Join (or s tart) a neighborhood watch. There's really no better form of crime prevention than your local neighbors watching out for each other. Host a Neighborhood Watch get-started meeting for your block, and invite a police department representative to assist with planning and training. And you thought your secret key was, well, secret? Most crooks are clever, and many never even get caught.

Never hide keys under a mat, or taped above a door frame, the burglar won't even thank you for your cooperation, but your insurer may have some awkward questions! Leave a key with a trusted neighbor. Place identification tags on your key or key rings if you really want to help the crook. 8. Assist your emergency services . Make your house numbers at least 4" - 6" high, reflective and visible from the street. Light up numbers at night. Report strange activity in your area (such as anyone looking into windows of houses or parked cars). The police are there to assist, so don't hesitate to use them.

Don't worry about false alarms. Better to be safe than sorry, but teach your kids to act responsibly. Call 911 if an emergency threatens human life or property.

If not a life-and-deaf matter, rather call your local police department directly for advice. 9. Cash has no equal! Don't make it too easy - burglars want cash or items easily fenced for cash; small electronic equipment, computers, cameras, jewelry, hand guns. Empty stereo and television packing boxes in the garbage alley is a strong indication of new equipment in your home. Hide valuables or lock them in a secure, hidden safe. Mark your valuables with your initials and family name as this will assist the police in returning them in the event of an arrest against a case docket opened by you. It also alerts second hand dealers to a possible crime 10. It takes less than a minute .

National Crime Prevention Institute research shows that burglars require less han 60 seconds to gain entry.