Were there to be a competition for the most sensible alphabet to use when writing Korean, then surely the Hangul script would be the top contender? After all, it fits the Korean language superbly because it's designed for it (unlike the Roman one that struggles on with German, French, English and who knows what more besides). Hangul is a table of spoken syllables in addition to being a useful alphabet. It's also simple to write from top to bottom and then from left to right Western tabloid style. This feature makes it possible to avoid rotating the letters too, for the simple reason that Korean words are constructed from a combination of two to five syllables (each invariably beginning with a consonant, and written in order from left to right and then from top to bottom. Did you know that it's possible to create 2,300 syllables in this remarkable way? And that, unlike the English language, Korean words rarely consist of more than two or three simple syllables (which is a great improvement on "antediluvian" and antidisestablishmentarianism", isn't it? Moreover, while it may appear confusing to Western eyes at first, it's actually easier (with practice) to comprehend than the transliterated alternative. It's also quite remarkable that in over six centuries just three consonants and one vowel have dropped out of use. This leaves modern Hangul with 24 characters that can be easily learned in just a few hours. This testimony to the wisdom of a forward-thinking King remains one of the most scientific phonetic alphabets in existence, and still represents a perfect tool for expressing the basic Korean language (although it does benefit from a little amplification where technology is involved). in 1984 along the lines of the McCune-Reischauer System so that both systems are now essentially the same. With two very different writing systems (Hangul and Hangul-Hanja blend) and the absorption of a third "westernized" alphabet, Hanguk-mal - as the Koreans affectionately call their language - serves as the time honored constant in Korean culture. Transliteration has not only given Korea's children another "language" to learn in a world where knowledge is the modern sine qua non . It has also caused some rather fundamental language problems. This is because Hangul is only designed to reproduce an image of a sound on paper, which it does commendably well. However spelling was not of interest in King Sejong the Great's days. This did not matter when there were no standardized dictionaries, and was of little consequence when Koreans were responding to the "sounds" of the words that they were reading, not the spelling. In fact, the first standardized Korean dictionary was only published in 1972. This must have previously been akin to paradise for students who could not be chastised for spelling errors, but chaos for their professors trying to make sense of what they wrote. The advent of computer technology with its imperative for precision at the user-machine interface point, is placing a whole new emphasis on spelling, transliteration, and alphabetization. While Western nations may see the computer as merely creating a new generation gap, many Koreans (remember, their language is closely tied to their culture) fear a culture gap developing. One can well imagine Korea's older generation shaking their heads and saying "Korea is dying" when they see their children writing in the Western alphabet instead of Hangul. And that, dear reader is what some call progress, and others American intellectual colonization. !! Amazing Special Offer - Learn Korean Now !! Korean HakGyo Learn the Basics of Korean Conversational Grammar in 15 Simple Lessons . For the amazingly low price of $*** you get c lear and concise explanations of how Korean grammar works with generous examples and audio visuals, PLUS A usable vocabulary of over 700 of the most common words - all with native speaker audio Numerous exercises to test your progress Vocabulary flashcards and tests to aid memorization Summary of Modules Overview - The topics to be covered in this exciting course plus a short audio highlighting these. Hovering your mouse cursor over topic descriptions provides further information Grammar - Each Chapter introduces a variety of grammar topics covered on the Grammar Pages. Vocabulary - The Vocabulary Pages introduce you to your Korean vocabulary for the chapter. There's an AutoProgress feature which allows for automatic progress with the choice of playing the audio, or delaying the display of the English transliterations. Vocabulary Exercises - After working through vocabulary topics you get the chance to test retention too! This includes multiple choice Korean / English and English / Korean) exercises, PLUS Connect Exercise, Matching and our unique proprietary Word Sorting methodology. Grammar Exercises - Your grammar exercise schedule includes Verb Conjugation, Multiple Choice, Word Order Shorting, Blanks, Conversation Building, Sentence Building and much, much more besides. Moreover you can access individual exercises directly using the black submenu in the right-hand column. Grammar Summary & Dictionary - Access a summary of the chapter's grammar by simply clicking on the Grammar Summary button. All of the Korean HakGyo vocabulary can be referenced in the inbuilt audio dictionary in exactly the same way too. 