Only cancerous cells spread by traveling through the body in the blood and lymphatic fluid, a yellow liquid derived from tissue fluids found throughout the body. They directly spread as well through the tissue next to the cervix. If cancerous cells are found before they have spread, treatment is more likely to succeed. Chlamydiainfection - Chlamydia is a relatively common kind of bacteria that can infect the reproductive system that can spread through sexual contact. Studies have seen a higher risk of cervical cancer in women whose bloodtest results show past or current chlamydia infection compared with women with normal test results. Long-term chlamydia infection can cause pelvic inflammation that can lead to infertility. This means that about 99.9% of "DES daughters" do not develop this kind of disease. DES daughters may also be at increased risk of developing pre-cancerous changes of cervical squamous cells and squamous cell cancer of the cervix and these are seem to be linked with HPV. Diet - Diet always plays an important role when it comes to one's health-- good or bad. And women whose diets are low in fruits and vegetables may be at increased risk for developing cervical cancer, especially overweight women. by using a small wooden spatula, brush, or cotton swab. Your physician will gently scrape the entire surface of your cervix to gather cells and takes a cell sample from your cervical canal by inserting a brush. The cells samples are sent to a laboratory for microscopic analysis. You will lie on the exam table as you do with a pelvic exam in this stage. The doctor will use the colposcope, an instrument with magnifying lenses (like binoculars), that lets the doctor see the surface of the cervix closely and clearly in examining the cervix. The doctor may "treat" your cervix with a weak solution of acetic acid (similar to vinegar) to make any abnormal area seasier to see. There are 2 methods commonly used for cone biopsies: the loop electro surgical excision procedure (LEEP; also called large loopexcision of the transformation zone [LLETZ]) and the cold knife conebiopsy. LEEP (LLETZ): With this method, the tissue is removed with a thin wire loop that is heated by electrical current and acts as a scalpel. For this procedure, a local anesthetic is used, and it can be done in your doctor's office. It can take as little as 10minutes. You may have mild cramping during and after the procedure, and mild to moderate bleeding may persist for several weeks. Cold knife cone biopsy: This method uses a surgical scalpel or a laser instead of a heated wire to remove tissue. It requires general anesthesia (you are asleep during the operation) and is done in a hospital, but no overnight stay is needed. After the procedure, cramping and some bleeding may persist for a few weeks. 