Middle Ages Alexian Brothers ministry began In the Low Countries and along the Rhine, small groups of men and women banded together to carry on Christ's commands. They would tend the sick, feed the hungry and bury the dead. 1259 first written account, referring to the Beguines and Beghards, of the Brothers The name of these communities evolved from the word "Algignese" which means "heretics." These communes of celibate men and women were looked upon as unorthodox or heretical because of the type of life they lived. Gradually, these communes became more organized. Mid13th century Support from the Franciscan order was received. It was from these-a handful of dedicated laymen along the Rhine - that the Alexian Brothers grew.

1346 Black Death - the Plague The Brothers stayed, risking their lives, to nurse the victims of the plague, to care for them and bury them when they died. Fifth century The men chose St. Alexius, a saint who was devoted to the poor and sick, as the patron of their first chapel. With the passing of time, reference was made to them as "Alexian Brothers" by the people they served. 1472 Pope Sixtus V approved and confirmed the Alexian Brothers as a religious community under the rule of St. Augustine.

1656 One of the first communities of Alexian Brothers was in the historic city of Aachen, Germany. In surrounding villages and towns, smaller, loosely formed communities were established primarily in the Low Countries and the Rhineland. A fire destroyed their house in Aachen in which they rebuilt into one of the first hospitals for the mentally ill. 1797 French Revolution Laws limited the Brothers to twelve men, and their property and administration came under government control. 1812 After the Concordat with Napoleon, only three Brothers were left in the community of Aachen. 1854 Brother Dominic Brock began to rebuild the decimated community just in time to send his men to battlefields and field hospitals in the wars of 1864, 1866, and 1870. 1866 Brother Bonaventure Thelen landed in the United States and established the first Alexian Brothers Hospital for men and boys in a small house on Dearborn Street in Chicago 1869 Immaculate Conception Province was established in Chicago.

1870 Hospitals in St. Louis, Missouri was established 1880 Hospitals in Oshkosh, Wisconsin was established 1892 Hospitals in Elizabeth, New Jersey was established 1871 After a move to larger quarters, the great fire of destroyed everything. Quick to rebuild on the same site, the city plans of a new elevated line forced them to move to yet another location, Belden Avenue. Today, the Alexian Brothers are located in Germany, Belgium, England, Ireland, the Philippines, Hungary, and the United States. The Alexian Brothers story is by no means finished.

The Brothers remain committed to the healing ministry and the community, as they did more than seven centuries ago.

When you're sick, we understand that you need to be seen as soon as possible. That's why we offer same-day appointments. When you call the office of an Alexian Brothers Medical Group physician we help you evaluate your condition and help you be seen by a physician as soon as possible. Many people are beginning to understand how important it is to be proactive where their health is concerned. At Alexian Brothers Medical Group, our proactive attitude has led to the creation of a Center that addresses healthy nutrition and weight management, as well as early detection and disease prevention.

For almost 20 years Alexian Brothers AIDS Ministry has been serving people impacted by HIV/AIDS at our two facilities, Bonaventure House in Chicago, and The Harbor in Waukegan. In the early days of the epidemic, Bonaventure House provided a place where people could come to die with some measure of dignity and love. As the disease evolved and treatments improved, Bonaventure House and The Harbor became places where people come not to die, but to live.

The Alexian Brothers' Charism is the prophetic and daring response of a faith community to the gospel of Jesus. It is rooted in prayer and simple life style. In discipleship with Jesus our response is reaching out to the poor, sick and dying, especially the marginated and the powerless.

Our charism calls us to conversion and total self-giving in continuing the healing and reconciling mission of Jesus in collaboration with others.