In geologic terms, a plate is simply a large and a rigid slab of solid rock. The word "tectonics" has been derived from the Greek root "to build." By placing these two words together, the term "plate tectonics" is obtained and it refers to the fact that the Earth's surface has been built of plates. Before the advent of the theory of plate tectonics, some people believed that the present-day continents are the result of the fragmented pieces of preexisting "supercontinents".

Most of the geological actions in the form of mountains, volcanoes, rift valleys, earthquakes, faulting are due to different types of interaction taking place at the plate boundaries. Four major scientific developments have resulted in the formulation of the plate-tectonics theory. These are: Demonstration of the youth and ruggedness of the ocean floor.

Repeated reversals of the magnetic field of Earth magnetic in the geologic past. Emergence of seafloor-spreading hypothesis along with the recycling of oceanic crust. Precise documentation of the fact that the world's earthquake and volcanic activity is actually concentrated along oceanic trenches.

The outermost part of the interior of Earth is made up of two layers. The upper part is the lithosphere , which comprises the crust and the rigid uppermost part of the mantle. Just below the lithosphere lies the asthenosphere. Though it is solid, the asthenosphere has got relatively low viscosity and shear strength. As a result, it can flow almost like a liquid on geological time scales. The mantle that is below the asthenosphere is much more rigid due to the higher pressure above it.

The lithosphere is further broken up into tectonic plates in the case of Earth and as mentioned before,there are seven major and a number of minor plates. These lithospheric plates ride over the asthenosphere. The division of the Earth's interior into lithosphere and asthenosphere is actually based on the ways that heat is transferred and in term s of mechanical differences. The lithosphere is not only cooler but also more rigid as compared to asthenosphere which is hotter and mechanically weaker. Moreover, lithosphere loses heat by the process of conduction whereas asthenosphere transfers heat by the process of convection. Plate motion ranges up to 10 to 160 mm/a depending upon the location. The plates are about 100 km thick and they consist of lithospheric mantle which is overlain by either oceanic crust or continental crust. These two types of crust differ in terms of thickness and the continental crust is considerably thicker as compared to the oceanic crust.

Tectonic plates may include continental crust or oceanic crust, and at the same time a single plate carries both. For instance, the African Plate includes the continent and also parts of the floor of Indian and Atlantic Oceans. Oceanic crust is denser as it has less silicon and more heavier elements as compared to the continental crust. As a result, the oceanic crust lies below the sea level while the continental crust is projected above the sea level. Plate Boundaries The lithospheric plates meet each other along a plate boundary, and these boundaries are generally associated with geological events like earthquakes and also the creation of topographic features like volcanoes, mountains and oceanic trenches. Most of the active volcanoes in the world occur along plate boundaries. Pacific Plate's Ring of Fire is the most active and most widely known.

Driving Forces of Plate Motion Tectonic plates move due to the difference in the relative density of oceanic lithosphere and the relative weakness of the asthenosphere with respect to the lithosphere. Dissipation of heat energy from the mantle is considered to be the actual source of energy that drives plate tectonics. Though the current view is still a matter of debate but the high density of the oceanic lithosphere that is sinking in subduction zones is considered to be the most powerful cause of plate motion. The weakness of asthenosphere permits the tectonic plates to move towards a subduction zone. Although subduction has been believed to be the strongest force that drives plates, but it cannot be considered as the only force due to the fact that there are plates like the North American Plate which are also moving without being subducted. This is also true for the movement of the enormous Eurasian Plate.

As a matter of fact, the sources of plate motion are a topic of intensive research among the earth scientists. There are essentially two kinds of forces that influence plate motion and these are friction and gravity. 1. Friction - C onvection currents in the upper part of mantle are transmitted through the asthenosphere and the relative motion of plates is driven by friction between the lithosphere and the asthenosphere. Local convection currents are believed to exert a downward frictional pull on those plates which are in subduction zones at ocean trenches. 2. Gravity - Plate motion is due to the higher elevation of plates at the ocean ridges. As cool oceanic lithosphere is considerably denser as compared the hot mantle material from which it has been derived, with increasing thickness it subsides gradually into the mantle in order to compensate the greater load. This results in a slight lateral incline with distance from the ridge axis. In geological literature in lower education the process is generally referred to as "ridge-push" but it is actually a misnomer as nothing is actually "pushing" as tensional features are dominant along the ridges.

It is more accurately known as gravitational sliding. Plate motion is partly driven due to the weight of cold, dense plates which are sinking into the mantle at trenches. Considerable evidence has been found which suggests that convection is occurring in the mantle. The up-welling of material at the location of mid-ocean ridges is certainly part of this convection.

Slab pull is thought to be the greatest force that is acting on the plates. Recent models have indicated that trench suction also plays an important role. However, it must be noted that the North American Plate is nowhere being subducted and yet it is in a state of motion. Likewise the Eurasian, African and the Antarctic Plates. The overall driving force of plate motion and its source of energy remain subjects of ongoing research.

Subduction discovered A consequence of seafloor spreading is the fact that new crust is being continually created all along the oceanic ridges. This idea was easily accepted by some scientists who believed that the shifting of the continents can be explained by a large increase in the size of the Earth ever since it was formed. However, this concept of "expanding Earth" hypothesis was unsatisfactory due to the fact that its supporters could not offer any convincing geologic mechanism to produce such a huge and sudden expansion. Most of the geologists believe that our Earth has changed a little since its formation which took place about 4.6 billion years ago. This raises a key question which is: how can new crust be continuously added all along the oceanic ridges without an increase in the size of the Earth?

This question intrigued Harry H. Hess, a geologist at Princeton University and a Naval Reserve Rear Admiral and Robert S. Dietz , who was a scientist with the U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey. He was the first one to coin the term "seafloor spreading." Dietz and Hess were actually among the small handful of people who really understood the implications of sea floor spreading. Hess reasoned that if the Earth's crust was actually expanding along the oceanic ridges, then it must be shrinking elsewhere. He also suggested that new oceanic crust which continuously spread away from the ridges in a motion that is similar to a conveyor belt. Millions of years later, the oceanic crust descends into the oceanic trenches which are very deep and narrow canyons all along the rim of the Pacific Ocean basin.

According to him, the Atlantic Ocean is expanding while the Pacific Ocean is shrinking. As the old oceanic crust is consumed in the trenches, new magma rises and erupts along the spreading ridges to form new crust.As a result, the ocean basins are perpetually being "recycled," due to the creation of new crust and also due to the destruction of old oceanic lithosphere, both occurring simultaneously. Thus, Hess' ideas were able to neatly explain why the Earth does not get bigger even though the sea floor is spreading, why there is very little accumulation of sediment on the ocean floor and why the oceanic rocks are much younger as compared to the continental rocks.

Continental Drift The continental drift is basically an ancient forerunner in the theory of plate tectonics. It suggests that all the continents have migrated to their present position following the breakup of a single landmass or super continent called Pangaea which means "all lands" in Greek. The diagrams shown above illustrate the break-up of the super continent called Pangaea., According to this theory, Pangaea or the super continent began to break up about 225 to 200 million years ago. Evidence of Continental Drift The theory of continental drift was originally developed due to the similarity observed in the shape of South American and African shorelines. This causes them to appear as if they had been once joined together.

The occurrences of plant and animal fossils and unusual geologic structures on these matching coastlines offered further substantiation, because the coastlines are widely separated by the vast Atlantic Ocean. It was argued that it was physically and practically impossible for most of these similarities to have swum or transported across the vast stretch of oceans between them. Moreover, the presence of identical fossils along the coastal belts of Africa and South America was one of the most compelling evidence that these two continents were once joined together.

After the break-up of Pangaea, the theory of drifting of continents not only explained the matching fossil occurrences but it also explained the evidence of dramatic climatic changes on some continents. For instance, the discovery of tropical plants' fossils in the form of coal deposits in the continent of Antarctica easily led to the conclusion that this frozen landmass must have been previously situated closer to the equator. As a matter of fact it had more temperate climate where lush and swampy vegetation could possibly grow. Other examples of mismatches of geology and climatic conditions include distinctive fossil ferns discovered in the now-polar regions and also the occurrence of glacial deposits in the present-day arid Africa. History of The Theory of Continental Drift The belief that the continents were always fixed in their present positions was first of all suggested as early as the year 1596 by a Dutch map maker Abraham Ortelius in one of his works called "Thesaurus Geographicus".

He suggested that South America and North America were "torn away from the continents of Europe and Africa as a result of earthquakes and floods." He suggested that the rupture reveals itself if you bring forward a world map and consider carefully the coast lines of these three continents. Today, most of the scientists believe that the earth was once a super-continent and at present, we have a lot of information on our planet as a result of mapping the ocean floor by making use of sound waves, measurement of magnetic field above the seafloor and by locating earthquakes with the help of world-wide network of seismographers. It was not until the year 1912 that the idea of shifting continents was seriously considered in the form of a full-blown scientific theory called "Continental Drift" was introduced in articles published by a German meteorologist named Alfred Lothar Wegener.

He suggested that, around 200 million years ago, the supercontinent called Pangaea began to split apart. Alexander Du Toit, a Professor in the field of Geology at Johannesburg University proposed that Pangaea must have first broken into two large continental landmasses, called Laurasia located in in the northern hemisphere and Gondwanaland located in the southern hemisphere. Later on, Laurasia and Gondwanaland continued breaking apart into the various smaller continents as they exist today.

The theory of continental drift would have become a spark that ignited a different way of viewing the Earth. But unfortunately, at the time when Wegener introduced this theory, the scientists of his time firmly believed the continents and oceans were permanent features on the surface of Earth. As a result, his proposal was not well received at that time, in-spite of the fact that it seemed to agree with the scientific information which was available at that time. A fatal weakness found in Wegener's theory was the fact that it wasn't able to satisfactorily answer a fundamental question raised by most of his critics: Which forces could be so strong that they could move such large masses of solid rocks over such great distances? Wegener suggested that this was due to the fact that the continents simply plowed through the ocean floor but his answer was not acceptable at that time.

Undaunted by the rejection, Wegener decided to devote the rest of his life in doggedly pursuing additional evidence to support his theory. He froze to death in the year 1930 during an expedition while crossing the Greenland ice cap and after his death, new evidence collected from ocean floor exploration rekindled interest in Wegener's theory. This ultimately led to the development of the plate tectonics.