After you've settled in a bit you need to explore Michigan a little first, because after all work is not everything, and you do need to live somewhere where you can fully appreciate the great outdoors. Here are some of Michigan's premier attractions (although of course it's by no means complete) - or intended to be, for that matter. Porcupine Mountains At the western corner of the northern peninsula of Michigan you'll find Porcupine Mountains Wilderness State Park that is a true gem for a great family vacation , and the largest State Park in Michigan too. It has many things to offer to families looking for adventure in the great outdoors. And it's accessible during all the seasons of the year. The Park got its name from the Ojibwa Indians, who named the 'small mountains' thus, because, with their tall trees, they looked like crouching porcupines. Visit in the spring as the leaves begin to bud. Call on it in the summer lambing season.

Greet it in the Autumn as the leaves begin to fall. Love it in the winter skying season. Its terrain is wild and rugged where it sits at the shoreline of Lake Superior, and inland where it embraces sixty-thousand acres of towering pines and sturdy birches and natural hemlock forests.

The rivers teem with various species of trout as they cut through the forests. Thanks to the topography waterfalls are a common sight. Campers have a choice between the Union Bay and Presque Isle campgrounds d uring spring and summer months. While Union Bay is the larger campground and offers electricity and showers, Presque Isle campground is very close to some really impressive waterfalls.

More Things to Do In Michigan 1. How About Visiting a few Museums? In fact, have you ever visited a museum before? Main attractions include: The Detroit Institute of Art. Did you know that it is the fifth-largest fine art museum in the country? The Grand Rapids Art Museum.

The Detroit Science Center that's geared to kids, and offers a host of family-friendly exhibits and galleries. The astonishing sensory experiences of the Museum's IMAX dome theater right next door. Your kids will thank you for your thoughtfulness.

Michigan has wonderful world-class museums all the way from art to science to history. 2. The Romantic World of Lighthouses. The say some sailors have wives in every port.

I'm unsure about all that. However every decent harbor needs a lighthouse, and Michigan has more lighthouses than any other State. These proud lighthouses continue to educate and serve us as a reminder of our state's grand maritime history.

Most are fully renovated and some that also have become working public museums. The sheer multitude of these historic gems bordering our Great Lakes means they have become a state icon. In fact, their tall and slender columns grace everything from lovely shorelines to picturesque wall calendars and greetings cards.

If nothing else, you and your family will be treated to nature's grand brushstrokes of a sweeping, maritime landscape. Don't miss the opportunity to visit them any time you fancy! 3. Michigan's Great Beaches . Beaches seem everywhere in Michigan thanks to our abundant coastline. It's so easy to love during the humid, late summer months (and to admire them from a heated motor car in winter when the cold winds send the rain clouds and the gulls scudding). From my own experience, northwest and southwest Michigan provide some of the finest beach experiences.

Some beaches are better than others of course, and that's why it's so important to pick the one that's right for you. Hiking in the Great Michigan Are you ready for some exercise? So lace up your boots, and off you go.

If you're looking to add a hike to your already-filled vacation itinerary (or for just that special half day with the kids) then you need not stress about staying fit as you explore those perfect Michigan hiking venues. Our hiking trails contain some of the top spots for hiking in America, such as Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore in the Upper Peninsula and the Sleeping Bear Dunes near Traverse City, but these are not the only possibilities when you look around. In fact, you'll find State and National Parks dotted throughout Michigan that have all kinds of trails to choose from.