COMPANY FACTS: Company Headquarters One Pampered Chef Lane Addison, Illinois 60101-5630 U.S.A. In the United Kingdom: Riding Court Riding Court Road Datchet, Berkshire SL3 9JT United Kingdom Products: Approximately, 143 items are available and 82% of all the products are exclusive to The Pampered Chef . Product Guarantee: At least one year guarantee on all the products. Distribution: primarily, products are sold through in-home cooking demonstrations known as Kitchen Shows . In 2002, there were over 1 million in-home Kitchen Shows held in the US, UK, Canada, and Germany Structure: Direct Selling. There are 7 levels of field management that progress from the Kitchen Consultant up until the Senior Executive Director. HISTORY In 1980 The Pampered Chef started simple, having Doris' home in Chicago as the office and warehouse. Yet, through that modesty, her sales had grown to 12, with sales over $50,000 (US) by the end of the first full year. Doris Christopher, a home economist and an educator who used and demonstrated functional, high-quality kitchen equipment and tools, founded The Pampered Chef in US. What made her motivated to open this kind of business was that often the tools we buy in local stores were not of the quality we expect from them. Many products were not designed well according to the needs to the consumers, sales staff were often uninformed about the information included with the products, and the products' information itself was inadequate. Home was the natural setting for the The Pampered Chef's "show and tell" method of selling the cooking products. This show let the consumers see how the products worked; let them try those out; and even let them taste the results. This kind of setting of home demonstration also gave Doris a flexible work schedule that made her balance her career and responsibilities to her family. In 1987 The Pampered Chef's sales exceeded the $1 million (US) mark, and currently, the sales are over $700 (US) million in the US alone. The anticipation that this business will grow incredibly over the next several years is high. In September 1999 With Doris' mission of preserving family mealtime, The Pampered Chef launched its business line in the United Kingdom. The consultants and customers across the country in no time embraced the company, its high-quality kitchen tools and equipment, and its provided exquisite service. Currently, there are hundreds of Consultants conducting Shows in the UK and more Consultants are starting their own everyday.. At present, The Pampered Chef is a fast moving multimillion dollar enterprise having more than 71,000 independent Kitchen Consultants all over the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, and Canada. The company instill the reputation of being the high-quality kitchen tools' premier direct seller. Organizing As a Kitchen Consultant, you have the option on how to organize, develop, and maintain independent businesses according to your own personal needs. You can schedule your own hours, goals and levels of achievement. Like other consultants, you can also work part time or be a full-timer businessman. The Pampered Chef organization has different levels of field management in order to satisfy all the ambitions of the entrepreneurs that start with Kitchen Consultant and up to being a Senior Executive Director. The Corporate Office offers valuable training and incentive programs that all consultants can enjoy. Recipes in Pampered Chef are generated by a chefs' team who are working for the company which they add to the website library daily. Currently, there are more than 180 recipes in the Pampered Chef website which include yet not limited to Latin based dishes , holiday desserts, salads, soups, time savers , cookware inspired meals, cooking for two, etc. The company features a specific highlight recipe each month as its recipe of the Month, wherein all kinds of ingredients are used in these recipes--fresh produce, fruit, and meats. Bring the water and sugar to a boil over medium heat and add the apple slices. - Reduce to medium-low heat and cook for 10 minutes. - Remove the slices and drain. - Spread the slices in a single layer on the silicone liner and bake overnight, or for 9 hours, until crisp. - To Prepare Apples for Presentation - Cut one-third off the top of each of 4 apples and scoop out the pulp with a spoon. - Squeeze some lemon juice over the apples and put a teaspoon of butter inside each. - Cover with plastic wrap and microwave for 1 minute, 45 seconds on high. - The apples should be a bit firm, but cooked inside. - Unwrap them and set aside to cool. To Make the Risotto - Squeeze the remaining lemon juice into the water. - Peel the remaining apples and cut into very small dice, tossing the diced apples in the lemon-water mixture. - Mix the cornstarch and apple juice and set aside. - Heat a skillet over medium heat. - Stir in the sautéed mushrooms and peas. - Add 2 teaspoons of butter and add 3/4 cup of the diced apples. DEC 6, 2007 I am just adding the photo of the PIZZA CUTTER that Deafmom forgot to add to her review. I have it for many years & I cut everything from deep dish pizzas to the packaging tape of boxzes UPS delivered. Works great for me & my husband. AUG 11, 2008 Being a working mom, we eat alot of pre-made meals, pizza being one of the childrens' favorites. This cutter works on the first roll, no need to slice over and over again. I have used it a 1000 + time and wash it in the dishwasher. It still looks brand new has never had to be sharpened. 