Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is an anxiety disorder characterized by uncontrollable, unwanted thoughts and repetitive, ritualized behaviors you feel compelled to perform. If you have OCD, you probably recognize that your obsessive thoughts and compulsive behaviors are irrational - but even so, you feel unable to resist them and break free. It's normal, on occasion, to go back and double-check that the iron is unplugged or your car is locked. But in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), obsessive thoughts and compulsive behaviors become so excessive that they interfere with daily life. And no matter what you do, you can't seem to shake them. If you or someone you love has obsessive-compulsive disorder, you may feel isolated and helpless, but there is help available. Many treatments and self-help strategies can reduce the symptoms of OCD. Usually, compulsions are performed in an attempt to make obsessions go away. For example, if you're afraid of contamination, you might develop elaborate cleaning rituals. However, the relief never lasts. In fact, the obsessive thoughts usually come back stronger. And the compulsive behaviors often end up causing anxiety themselves as they become more demanding and time-consuming. Just because you have obsessive thoughts or perform compulsive behaviors does NOT mean that you have obsessive-compulsive disorder. Many people have mild obsessions or compulsions that are strange or irrational, but they're still able to lead their lives without much disruption. But with obsessive-compulsive disorder, these thoughts and behaviors cause tremendous distress, take up a lot of time, and interfere with your daily routine, job, or relationships. Common obsessive thoughts in OCD include: Fear of being contaminated by germs or dirt or contaminating others Fear of causing harm to yourself or others Intrusive sexually explicit or violent thoughts and images Excessive focus on religious or moral ideas Fear of losing or not having things you might need Order and symmetry: the idea that everything must line up "just right." Superstitions; excessive attention to something considered lucky or unlucky Common compulsive behaviors in OCD include: Excessive double-checking of things, such as locks, appliances, and switches. Repeatedly checking in on loved ones to make sure they're safe. Counting, tapping, repeating certain words, or doing other senseless things to reduce anxiety. Spending a lot of time washing or cleaning. Ordering, evening out, or arranging things "just so." Praying excessively or engaging in rituals triggered by religious fear. Accumulating "junk" such as old newspapers, magazines, and empty food containers, or other things you don't have a use for. Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) symptoms in children While the onset of obsessive-compulsive disorder usually occurs during adolescence or young adulthood, younger children sometimes have symptoms that look like OCD. However, the symptoms of other disorders, such as ADD, autism, and Tourette's syndrome can also look like obsessive-compulsive disorder, so a thorough medical and psychological exam is essential before any diagnosis is made. It's also important to note that OCD is an anxiety disorder, and in children, the symptoms of anxiety usually change over time. So a child with OCD symptoms will not necessarily have OCD as an adult. What's most important is to make environmental and behavioral changes to reduce your child's anxiety. Exposure and response prevention involves repeated exposure to the source of your obsession. Then you are asked to refrain from the compulsive behavior you'd usually perform to reduce your anxiety. For example, if you are a compulsive hand washer, you might be asked to touch the door handle in a public restroom and then be prevented from washing up. As you sit with the anxiety, the urge to wash your hands will gradually begin to go away on its own. In this way, you learn that you don't need the ritual to get rid of your anxiety - that you have some control over your obsessive thoughts and compulsive behaviors. Studies show that exposure and response prevention can actually "retrain" the brain, permanently reducing the occurrence of obsessive-compulsive disorder symptoms. This type of OCD therapy can even extinguish compulsive behaviors entirely. - Because OCD often causes problems in family life and social adjustment, family therapy is often advised. Family therapy promotes understanding of the disorder and can help reduce family conflicts. It can also motivate family members and teach them how to help their loved one. You're not alone in your struggle with OCD, and participating in a support group is an effective reminder of that. In a support group, you can share your experience and learn from others who are going through the same thing you are. Click here to search the Obsessive Compulsive Foundation's support group database. Meditation, yoga, deep breathing, and other stress relief techniques may help reduce the symptoms of anxiety brought on by OCD. Mindfulness meditation may be particularly helpful to OCD sufferers. Helping a loved one with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) If your friend or family member has OCD, your most important job is to educate yourself about the disorder. Learn everything you can about the disorder and make sure your loved one has access to information about it as well. Share what you've learned with your friend or family member and let them know there is help available. Simply knowing the condition is treatable may provide enough motivation to get them into a therapist's office. How to Relate to Your Family Member with OCD View your relative's obsessive-compulsive behaviors as symptoms, not character flaws. Remember that your relative is a person with a disorder, but who is healthy and able in many other ways. Focus on the whole person. Do not allow OCD to take over family life. As much as possible, keep stress low and family life normal. Do not participate in your relative's rituals. If you have helped with rituals in the past, it may take time and practice to change this pattern. In order for people with OCD to make progress, family and friends must resist helping with ritual behaviors. Supporting the rituals, including reassurance rituals, hinders progress. Communicate positively, directly and clearly. State what you want to happen, rather than criticizing your relative for past behaviors. Avoiding personal criticism can help your relative feel accepted while he or she is making difficult changes. Mix humor with caring. Support doesn't always have to be serious. People with OCD know how absurd their fears are. They can often see the funny side of their symptoms, as long as the humor does not feel disrespectful. Family members say that humor can often help their relative become more detached from symptoms. John's story John is a 42-year-old accountant whose obsessive "checking" behaviors are gradually taking up more and more of his time. He spends at least an hour every morning checking and rechecking that the windows are latched, the security alarm is set, and the front door is locked. At work, John goes over his clients' books again and again, out of fear that he's missed something or made a mathematical error. Consequently, his productivity has plummeted. Lately, John has also started to worry about his wife's safety, calling her every three hours to see if she's okay. He's afraid that if he misses a call, something bad will happen to her.