Solar Panels inOur Lives With the rapid depletion of traditional fossilfuels in the form of crude oil,natural gas and coal, many nations are starting to look towardsalternative energy solutions. Wind, wave and solar power arestarting to emerge as sensible option,s because these sources areall renewable and certainly don't cause any pollution. Future generations will look back at this phase in history. One ofthe many question that will be asked of us will be "why did theworld take so long to move out of oil"? To be quite fair, many havetried moving to alternate sources of energy, but the greedy oilcompanies have too much to los,e and have moved quickly to silenceany threats. In this article, we focus on solar panels as a way forward.Already, solar power is the only viable option for space travel,and it is thanks mainly to developments from the likes of NASA thatgreat strides have been made in harnessing sloar energy.

Since theSun should be around for a very long time to come, it is high timethat we concentrated all our efforts in dveloping this abundantform of energy from our very own sloar system.

Typical Applications for SolarPanels Solar technology firms design and produce a rangeof solar products that allow the use of the sun for free energy.These solar panels let you capture the sun's energy, and convert itto electril current, and power a range of appliances. These panelsuse the latest in cutting edge technology to harness solar power.They regularly use crystalline silicon technology - which is moreefficient than amorphous or thin film solutions, particularly inlower light conditions as found in the Europe. Just think of the many ways you could usethis electricity generated freely by solar power! You could bringpower to a shed, a workshop or a summerhouse for lighting, tools oreven an alarm system …you could power up electric gates and fences- without running cables across your garden or through your home…you could ventilate your greenhouse with an extractor fan …youcould trickle charge your car, motorhome or boat battery to extendits life - all with free energy. Commercial solar kits can be fitted tobuildings in less than an hour and come packaged in a single box.This includes a panel, and all the accessories that bring mainsfree lighting, and power in your garden shed, your garage, yoursummer house, and almost anywhere else, and all from solarpower. The range of Solar powered garden lightsuses the highest quality technology. They are ideal for thevariable weather too, ensuring that they capture solar energy everyday to give you a brighter, longer lasting light.

A CostedExample from a Commercial Presentation The Product: A 28 WATTSolar Panel Kit - Everything you need except a car battery! The Hook: Are you fed upwith power blackouts, dips and surges? Perhaps you need an urgentdelivery of a 28 watt solar panel kit to solve your problems. Itcould be with you in twenty-four hours, no problem, and there's noextra charge for shipping either.

The Bait: Our range of solar panels use the latest technology, allowingyou to capture the sun's energy, and to convert this magic solarpower into electrical current to power a range ofappliances. The Sell: Our panels usecrystalline silicon technology, which is more efficient thanamorphous or thin film solutions, particularly in lower lightconditions found in Northern Europe. All our solar panels areaccredited with the internationally recognised IEC 61215certification.

Our solar panels extend from 5 watts through to 150watts in power. Choosing the correct size of panel will depend onvariables such as the power drawn by your appliances, daily lengthof use and hourly sunshine rates. All panels over 28 WATTs requirea voltage regulator. Please refer to our accessory table to ensureyou have the correct equipment to operate your chosen solarpanel. The Bribe: Are you struggling withtechnology you don't quite understand yet? Talk to us first, ourtechnologists are waiting for your call The Deal: Our price an amazing $220for 28 WATT Solar Panel. Convertthis bargain intoelec tric current and power an amazingrange of your own appliances for just a few $$$ more, Youget Voltage regulato for just $29.95 150 Watt inverter on stand for only$55 Panel stand for an unbelievable $9.50more Could you believe this? Ourcompetition certainly can't believe we're giving away crystalline silicon technology - which is moreefficient than amorphous or thin film- for these crazy prices.

Infact, even our supplier's are a little annoyed. Our exclusive 28 watt panel provides a continuoustrickle feed, maintaining and extending the life of any 12V batteryyou choose to fit. What's more, it's supplied with a 4 Amp chargecontroller, all the necessary cable (five meters), connectors anddetailed installation instructions too. A solar panel carry bag is available as an optionto protect your precious kit. This is a great addition where yourpanel will be used in temporary locations - e.g. where used with atouring caravan. What's even more amazing, our carry bag is madefrom hard wearing shower resistant cordura ,AND offers tough custom built protection for your solar panel too.Why not take on board our handy universal stand as well? It quicklyfits to the panels, enabling them to be used in free standing mode,perfectly angled to suit the sun any time of day or year.

In summary, for our low, low price you get High efficiency crystalline cell for "allweather" charging Perfect for powering lap top computers* anduse in larger caravans over a period of an entire week Water resistant, robust construction foroutdoor use Built-in diode protects against batterydischarge 20 year cell warranty and 10 year modulewarranty Practical carry bag and cable kitincluded Technical Specifications Power: 28 watts Peak Output: 1.70A @ 17.6V Approximate watt-hours per day*: 196 Approximate amp-hours per day*: 11.9 Dimensions: 559 x 407 x 25mm Weight: 2.8kg * Based on 7 hours of average daily peak sunlighthours That's perfect for caravan 12Vbattery operation For a one-week trip, or even laptop computeroperation Module Profile: Our module is designed in accordance withIEC61215:1993 standards, manufactured with proven materials, andtested to ensure electrical performance and service life. SiN filmdeposited on the front surface by PECVD acts as anti reflectioncoating and gives a uniform dark blue appearance. Cells are laminated between high transmission low-iron 3mm tempered glass, a sheet of TPT material AND two sheets ofEVA to prevent moisture penetrating into the module.Heavy dutyanodized aluminium frame provides high wind resistance andconvenient mounting access. A multi-contact waterproofversatile junction box and terminals allow for quick and simpleconnection.The cable supplied - designed for photo voltaic use - guarantees thateach module has excellent power transmission throughout theyear. Review In our experience, solar energy is a proven power source that isused around the world for a variety of industrial, domestic,commercial, and government applications.

ISolar is already poweringwater pumps in African villages, weather stations in the antarctic,and satellites in deep space! It works by transforming energy fromthe sun into a renewable form of electricity, a process known asPhotovoltaic conversion (or PV for short). Every Solar panel you buy acts as a collecting tray, helping youto catch the sun rays.

The larger the panel, the more energy youcan accumulate. The energy collected is stored for future use inbatteries. Sometimes you could collect even more energy than youactually need, in which case you may need a voltage regulator tocontrol energy flow, and to prevent battery damage. It would indeed be difficult to find a more environmentallyfriendly power supply. Clean and green, solar power is a renewable,sustainable and non-polluting source of energy. It is easy tounderstand the appeal of solar power for domestic use. Lowmaintenance and long lasting, solar energy is a highlycost-effective and reliable energy supply. All Solar panels evennormally come with a 10 year guarantee.

Movements inTechnology Market leaders design, manufacture and sell solarphotovoltaic systems comprised of panels and mounting hardware forlarge, low-slope commercial rooftops . These panels perform optimally whenmounted horizontally and packed close together, thereby coveringsignificantly more of the rooftop area, and producing moreelectricity per m2 on an annual basis than a conventional panelinstallation. These solar panels are unlike any other productever tested in the solar industry. They are made of racks ofcylindrical tubes (also called tubular solar panels) as opposed totraditional flat panels. Advanced equipment rolls outcopper-indium-gallium-diselenide thin films into cylindricalshapes, and then places forty of them at a time in each one meterby two meter panel. The cylindrical solar panels (not unlikefluorescent tube lights...except in reverse) can absorb energy fromevery direction - that's direct, indirect and reflected light.

Every solar cylinder, which is just one inch indiameter, is made up of two tubes. Advanced equipment is used todeposit CIGS on the outside of an inner tube, which includes up to150 CIGS cells. On top of the CIGS material, the equipment alsoadds an optical coupling agent which concentrates the sunlight thatshines through the outer tube. After inserting the inner tube intothe outer tube, each cylinder is sealed with glass and metal tokeep out moisture, which otherwise could erode the CIGS'performance. This sealing technology is commonly used in florescent light bulbs too .

When combined with a white roof (the fastestgrowing segment of the commercial roof industry with over onebillion square feet installed and required for any new commercialconstructions in States like California), systems that employ thesepanels on a given rooftop area can produce significantly moreelectricity in a given year. With a white roof, the panels can evencapture up to 20% more light than on a black one. The other advantage claimed by developers is thatthe panels don't have to move to track the sun.

That's becausetheir tubular nature is always presenting some aspect directly tothe sun. The daily production of flat solar panels has an outputcurve that has a clear peak, while tubular systems produce morepower throughout the day. These revolutionary panels allow wind to blowthrough them. According to scientists, this enables theinstallation of photovoltaic generators on a broader range ofrooftops without anchoring or ballast, which are inherentlyproblematic on account of weight. They also claim that wind andsnow loads are negligible too, and that the panels are lighter inweight per area, although some dispute this' Tubular Performance and ProductCharacteristics Manufacturers claim the cells convert 12% to 14% ofsunlight into electricity, an efficiency that some say is betterthan competing CIGS thin-film technologies. They have so farrefused to discuss full panel performance though, which is theindustry metric, and the one most relevant for customers. The efficiency of tubular panels depends on thenature of the rooftops they are installed on too. For instance, anon-white rooftop does not reflect light, and thus may rule out thebenefits.

Even an originally white rooftop may become darker over aperiod of time, so that it is difficult to pinpoint kWh performanceefficiencies over the years. Manufacturer Solyndra recently installed a solarpanel on the equator in Singapore. This system is part of an effortthat started several years ago. In 2006, Solyndra began deployingdemonstration systems around the world. The company recentlyrevealed that the total count now stands at fourteen installations,and that these systems are all instrumented with highly sensitiveradiation, wind speed, temperate and humidity measurement devices,to aid in the development of energy yield forecasting softwaretools.