The center is owned and operated by Orange County Government. In addition to providing services to event planners, exhibitors and attendees, the OCCC serves the local community promoting economic growth to local businesses. The entire venture, operating costs and expansions, has been paid for by tourist taxes, and not the taxes of the residents of the area.

The Orange County Convention Center is committed to green issues too. They work closely with the organizers of events to support and promote green events and procedures. There are numerous recycling containers located throughout the whole center and both staff and clients are encouraged to recycle paper-recycling efforts by staff and clients.

Each year the Orange County Convention Center is host to the annual Central Florida Home & Garden Show. The show runs for three days every March. You'll find countless decorating, building, remodeling and landscaping ideas. Like its sister event, the Orlando Home Show , the Central Florida Home & Garden Show is the largest consumer home and garden event in the region. You'll find plenty of opportunities to shop and save money on your home and garden improvement projects. The event features more than five hundred exhibitors. All experts in their field within the home improvement industry.

There are experts and celebrities at the event giving demonstrations and offering tips and advice to the show visitors. The event offers parking on site for a fee. You can buy your tickets over the internet to save time queuing up. Check out the website for special discounts and saving offers as they can differ from year to year.

The JW Marriott Orlando Grande Lakes is located 3.5 miles from the OCCC. This hotel is located on five hundred acres of gorgeous, tropical landscaping. There's a beautiful relaxing spa, several top restaurants and a championship golf course designed by Greg Norman. There's also a tropical lagoon style swimming pool. Great for relaxing after a long day of meetings.

The hotel is especially great for business guests, as for a low daily fee you can get access to high speed Internet access as well as unlimited local and long distance telephone calls within the United States. Wi-fi is also available in meeting rooms and public spaces within the hotel. The Ritz Carlton Grande Lakes Resort is also located 3.5 miles from the OCCC.

This is a new, ultra-modern sophisticated resort. Every room has high speed internet, multi line phones and network data-ports.There is also a championship golf course in the hotel grounds. The 3 star Rosen Center is located very conveniently right next to the Convention Center 3 Stars. The Rosen Center features a heated outdoor pool, a full service health club and spa with a salon offering massages skin care treatments.

There is a business center located within the Rosen Center too. The Rosen Plaza Hotel is also close to the OCCC. It is a Mobil 3 star and AAA 3 diamonds hotel. This resort offers great live entertainment in the resort's own nightclub and a variety of dining opportunities With their relaxing rooms and suites, it's a great place to stay and very convenient for the OCCC and the other attractions of the area. Another hotel close to the OCCC is the twenty seven story Peabody Hotel Orlando, set in stunning landscapes gardens this luxury hotel is known for good service.

The hotel is rated Mobil 4 Star and AAA 4 Diamonds. It has also been voted one of the Top 100 Hotels in the US. A mile away from the OCCC is the Renaissance SeaWorld Orlando Resort which has the most beautiful atrium in it's ten story lobby. If you're bringing the family on your business trip then this hotel is great as it is just over the road from Sea World, yet still close to the OCCC for you. The resort is set in 27 acres and is a AAA 4 Diamond hotel.

All rooms offer high-speed Internet access and unlimited calls for a small daily fee. You can walk to the OCCC from the Embassy Suites Hotel making it ever so convenient for business travelers. This hotel has been awarded AAA 3 Diamonds. The beautiul hotel atrium features waterfalls and a pretty pond.Included in your room price is a full cooked-to-order breakfast and manager's reception every day of your stay. Courtyard By Marriott Orlando International Drive was purpose built with business travelers in mind. Set just one mile from the OCCC, all guest rooms offer free high speed Internet access,two data port telephones, coffee in the room, and a large work desk with a comfortable chair. You'll also get a free daily paper to keep up with the news.

There's a gym and heated outdoor pool with whirlpool. Another option is the Crowne Plaza Hotel Orlando Universal Studios which is a mile and a half from the OCCC. The hotel is great for both business and leisure and has four hundred deluxe guest rooms, a fitness center, a heated swimming pool with whirlpool and free transportation to area attractions for all guests. The Crowne Plaza Universal was designed by a team of world-class architects and designers creating a truly unique hotel. The hotel has two areas, the Crowne Wing with a conference center and many guest rooms, and the Atrium Tower with further guest rooms and suites arranged around a fifteen story circular atrium. You'll reach your room in the AtriumTower by highspeed glass elevator. There is a business center available to use too. AmeriSuites Convention Center is a AAA 3 Diamonds hotel located within walking distance of the OCCC.

Another hotel that has been designed specifically for business visitors it features a modern business center a swimming pool and a gym. Another hotel within walking distance of the OCCC is the Best Western Plaza International a 2 Diamond AAA . MOBIL1 Star hotel. A hotel that is both convenient and affordable. Doubletree Castle is situated less than a mile away from the OCCC and has been awarded AAA 3 Diamonds. This themed hotel with spires and fountains is stunning to see. The castle theme is continued throughout the hotel. Visit the swimming pool, hot tub, fitness center and two themed restaurants.

If you're bringing your kids then they'll love this hotel! The Embassy Suites Hotel Orlando is located within a mile of the OCCC. It is an AAA 3 Diamonds hotel. It features suites that consist of two rooms and benefits from an outdoor pool, sauna with whirlpool, and a gym.Staying at this hotel brings lots of benefits including a complimentary breakfast every day, free transportation to local attractions and free cocktails for two hours every day. The Fairfield Inn By Marriott Orlando International Cove is located two miles from the OCCC. This budget hotel has won awards and is considered to be very good value. The Hampton Inn is within easy walking distance of the OCCC.

It is an AAA 3 Diamonds hotel. The hotel has 170 rooms and is wheelchair accessible. There is a gym and an outdoor pool too. Additionally there is a handy meeting room that seats up to fifty and you can hire audio/visual equipment too. You'll get a daily free breakfast if you stay at the Hampton Inn. Hilton Garden Inn is situated just a mile from the OCCC and is rated Mobil 3 Stars.

At this hotel you'll get free high speed Internet and printing. There's also a complimentary business center open twenty four hours a day. The Holiday Inn & Suites is located within walking distance of the OCCC.

The hotel has 115 rooms and 35 suites with kitchens. In every room you'll find a microwave, coffeemaker and refrigerator. You'll also get high speed internet access.There is a pool and a gym, The on site Cafe Largo serves breakfast and dinner. Homewood Suites are just half a mile from the OCCC and have a 3 diamond AAA Rating.This hotel is within walking distance for all the shops and restaurants of the popular International Drive. There are 252 suites, and a business and conference center offering meeting and banquet facilities. Residence Inn By Marriott Orlando Convention Center- Orange County Convention Center - 1.5 miles.

Residence Inn by Marriott is designed to make you feel at home for a day, a week, a month or more. Our suites give you fifty percent more space than most traditional hotel rooms. The Residence Inn Orlando Convention Center is located adjacent to Pointe Orlando and 1.5 miles from the Orange County Convention Center. The Universal theme parks are two miles away with Epcot Center, Typhoon Lagoon and Walt Disney World eight miles. * All suites feature complimentary high speed Internet access with wireless service available in public areas of the hotel.

The Residence Inn By Marriott can be found 2 miles from the OCCC. The spacious suites offer separate living and sleeping areas and kitchen. This hotel is well located for all the attractions of the area.

All guests can enjoy a free breakfast every day. The 2 AAA diamond Masters Inn is a mile from the OCCC. Offering a relatively cheap level of accomodation for those on a budget. The Quality Inn Plaza is also situated a mile from the OCCC.

You'll find a refrigerator and microwave in your room. At this hotel your children can eat for free at breakfast and dinner buffets as long as they are with a paying adult. There is a free shuttle to some of the local attractions too.

The Sheraton World Resort is just half a mile away from the OCCC. This AAA 3 Diamond resort sits in 28 acres of grounds and is within walking distance of SeaWorld. The hotel has three heated outdoor swimming pools, a fitness center and 55,000 square feet of meeting space. The Sierra Suites Pointe Orlando is also half a mile from the OCCC.

Rooms feature high speed internet access a refrigerator, microwave and coffeemaker. The hotel has 137 studio suites There is a complimentary shuttle service to local attractions too. Springhill Suites By Marriott is half a mile from the OCCC. This is an economy all-suite hotel with free high speed Internet access representing very good value for money.

With a knowledgeable Guest Services team on-site and amenities suited to meet all your requirements, attendees will always feel well looked after. You'll also benefit from the year round sunshine! The OCCC is full of extra facilities. The center is fully wheelchair accessible, there are cash machines and money changing machine available.

You can check your bags and coats into a cloakroom so you don't need to carry them around all day. Handy if you visit a show and make some heavy purchases! There is a business center, dining services and a guest service desk.

There is email, internet and wi-fi available, first aid and security facilities and staff. There are public telephones, and on site wheel chairs and mobility scooters to borrow. You can also choose to have your shoes shined or even have a relaxing massage.