On Sunday, July 17, 1955, invited guests arrived, and 90 million people watched via a live television broadcast. The day is still known in Disney lore as "Black Sunday," and for good reason, as a guest list of 15,000 swelled to almost 30,000 attendees. Among the many mishaps: Local police dubbed the seven-mile freeway backup the worst mess they had ever seen. Rides and attractions broke down under the unslaught of guests, opening and closing periodically to make way for television crews. Fantasyland closed temporarily due to a gas leak. Main Street's freshly-poured asphalt softened in the heat. Women wearing high heels sometimes left a shoe behind, stuck in black goo.

Because of a plumber's strike, both restrooms and drinking fountains could not be ready by opening day. Walt opted for restrooms, leaving visitors hot and thirsty. Most reviewers declared the park overpriced and poorly managed, expecting Disneyland history to be over almost as soon as it began. Disneyland History: Open to the Public The next day, 10,000 members of the general public got their first peek. On the first day of its long history, Disneyland charged visitors $1.00 admission (about $6.50 in today's dollars) to get through the gate and see three free attractions in four themed lands. Individual tickets for the 18 rides cost 10 to 35 cents each. Walt and his staff addressed the problems, limiting daily attendance to 20,000 to avoid overcrowding. Within seven weeks, the one-millionth guest passed through the gates.

Landmark Dates in Disneyland History 1959: Disneyland almost causes an international incident when U. S. officials deny Soviet Premier Nikita Krushchev a visit because of security concerns. The most expensive ticket, it granted access to the most exciting rides and attractions such as Space Mountain and Pirates of the Caribbean. 1963: The Enchanted Tiki Room opens, and the term "animatronics" (robotics combined with 3-D animation) is coined. 1964: Disneyland generates more money than Disney Films.

1966: Walt Disney dies. 1982: The Disneyland Ticket Book is retired, replaced by a "Passport" good for unlimited rides. 1985: Year-round, daily operation begins. Before this, the park closed Monday and Tuesday during off seasons. 2001: Downtown Disney , Disney's California Adventure and the Grand Californian Hotel open.

Sitting in the middle of the Disneyland Resort in Anaheim, Downtown Disney is a shopping, dining and entertainment complex. With stores, restaurants, street performers, a twelve-screen movie theater, ESPN Zone and the House of Blues, it offers plenty to do, and it's a good place to round out your Disneyland vacation with a dash of something different. Downtown Disney is outside the theme parks, open to the public, and there is no admission charge. If you want to eat, shop or go to the movies here, the first three hours of parking are free, and you can get two more hours free with validation from the movie theatre or any sit-down restaurant.

Downtown Disney Entertainment If the two theme parks don't keep you entertained enough, you can indulge your inner jock at ESPN Zone, catch a movie at the AMC theatre (good way to rest those tired feet), or enjoy a musical performance or Jazz Brunch at House of Blues. If you'd like to see the Disneyland fireworks while you're here but aren't going into the park, just follow the signs from Downtown Disney that mark the walking route to the Mickey and Friends parking lot. Go to the lot's top floor and you'll get a great view of both the fireworks at the castle and the ones at the Fantasmic show. Downtown Disney Dining When I visit the Disneyland Resort, I like to go to Downtown Disney for a meal.

It gives a chance to get away from the crowds for a while, and you can get better value for your dining dollars. Get your hand stamped as you leave and save your pass card for an easy return. Downtown Disney restaurants include the Rainforest Cafe (a favorite of kids of all ages), House of Blues, Brennan's Jazz Kitchen, Naples Ristorante e Pizzeria and Catal Restaurant. If don't want to wait for a table, but don't want to make do with a pretzel and lemonade either, try the Uva Bar. Located in the central courtyard, they share the same kitchen with Catal restaurant, and usually have a much shorter wait. You can call Disney Dining at 714-781-3463 to arrange for Priority Seating at any of the restaurants except the Rainforest Cafe (whose phone number is 714-772-0173). Shopping Downtown Disney Disney makes an effort to bring unique shops into the Downtown Disney area. Most of the items sold fall into the category of home decoration, jewelry or toys.

Younger children may enjoy a visit to Build-a-Bear Workshop. Their Disney store is close to a city block long, but if you are looking for real collector's items, you'ill find better choices inside the theme parks.

2004: Australian Bill Trow is the 500-millionth guest. Disneyland History Sources There may well be as many urban legends about Disneyland as there are facts. We try to avoid the former in our Disneyland history. Our material for this Disneyland history comes to us courtesy of Disneyland Public Relations.

Hilton Anaheim Hotel Information The Hilton Anaheim hotel is located in the heart of California's famous Orange County, adjacent to the Anaheim Convention Center and steps from the Disneyland Resort. Our full-service hotel offers something for everyone, whether planning a family vacation, attending a conference or traveling on business. Highlights of the hotel include an on-site Starbucks Marketplace, a lushly landscaped outdoor heated swimming pool and four whirlpool tubs, CafOasis - serving delicious, fresh California cuisine, and the Avenue Lounge. Our 25,000 square foot full-service Hilton Spa & Fitness Center (daily fee applies) offers the perfect combination of relaxation and invigoration, with a large selection of weight-training and cardio equipment, group exercise classes and luxurious spa services. The Spa & Fitness Center's indoor pool is a tranquil adults-only retreat from the outside world. Those looking to plan a meeting, conference or event need look no further than the Hilton Anaheim hotel. The hotel offers 100,000 square feet of indoor meeting space, including two 28,500 square foot ballrooms and 51 breakout meeting rooms.

Two large outdoor sundecks are perfect for hosting a reception or meeting under the warm California sun. Our highly experienced catering and events teams will help you plan the perfect event. In addition to our close proximity to the Disneyland Resort and the Anaheim Convention Center, other nearby points of interest include Angel Stadium, The Honda Center (Home of the Ducks), Anaheim GardenWalk (featuring a variety of upscale dining and retail options), the Crystal Cathedral, Knott's Berry Farm, shopping, beaches and golf courses. The Hilton Anaheim hotel is a short drive from three major airports: John Wayne/Orange County Airport (SNA), Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) and Long Beach Airport (LGB). Travel should take you places!

What You Need to Know About Disneyland Tickets Once you start your Disneyland visit, lost tickets cannot be replaced, even if you have a copy of them. Keep them safely tucked into a secure pocket while you're in the park. The lowest-priced, single-day Disneyland tickets are good for only one park. In other words, you can't visit Disneyland in the morning and Disney's California Adventure in the afternoon of the same day. If you order from Disney online (which requires you to register before making the purchase), you can opt for eTickets delivered by e-mail which you can print out at home. This saves shipping costs, but even more important, an eTicket can be replaced if you forget or lose it, as long as the person who bought it is present and has the credit card they used with them. If that happens, just head for Guest Services at the Main Entrance Will Call window with the credit card and a photo ID and they can issue a new ticket.

An easy way to get Disneyland tickets and stay out of line at the park is to order online from CalActive. They guarantee a rate as low as you'll get by buying direct, offer online and postal mail delivery or will call pickup. Multi-day Disneyland tickets and one-day Hoppers allow you to visit both parks on the same day. Multi-day Disneyland tickets expire 13 days after the first use, no matter how many days you buy. Order by telephone at 714-781-4400. This is the only way to get one-day tickets in advance. If you buy from Disney, you can have them delivered to your home. You'll pay a shipping fee that varies depending on your location and lead time.

These tickets cannot be replaced if they're lost, even if you have a copy. Order at least 8 days before you leave home, or 17 days in advance to get the lowest shipping rate. Pack them in your carry-on luggage. Children under 3 get in free, and anyone over 10 years old pays adult admission for Disneyland tickets. Unlike other theme parks, Disneyland offers few discounts on tickets. The best way to save money on Disneyland tickets is to spend less time there, but our guide to Getting Disneyland Tickets at a Discount summarizes all the ways you can get your Disneyland tickets without paying full price.

Southern California visitors will find discount tickets for Universal Studios and Sea World everywhere they look, from tourist magazines to the paper lining their dinner trays at the local fast food joint, but getting Disneyland discount tickets isn't quite as easy. The good news is that you can still get some Disneyland discount tickets, and you'll do best if you plan in advance. Disneyland Discount Tickets - Options Buy online not at the ticket booth: You can get Disneyland discount tickets if you buy them online in advance. Prices can be up to $50 per ticket less than what you'd pay at the gate. Print at home or to get them in the mail. ARES Travel offers small discounts on Disneyland California tickets and you can also reserve character breakfasts through them.

They deliver by FedEx for a $10 fee and you can also order by phone at 800-680-0977. Southern California CityPass: If you're planning on visiting some of Southern California's other attractions during your trip, this one is your best bet. You can get 3-Day Disneyland Tickets, tickets for one day each at Universal Studios, SeaWorld and your choice of a ticket to the San Diego Zoo OR San Diego Zoo's Wild Animal Park.

The total discount is approximately 30%, and you can buy the passes online in advance, or at the gate of any of the participating attractions. Disneyland Specials: From time to time, Disney offers special discounts. The most common is adding a couple of extra days to a multi-day ticket for free. Stay Away from Auctions: Some people buy 5-Day passes, use two or three days and try to sell the remaining time in online auctions. However, these tickets state in writing, "Not For Sale. Non Transferable, Must be used by the same person, all days," and this practice is not recommended. Shorten Your Stay: Another way to save money is to spend fewer days in the parks, but this doesn't mean you can't do everything.

Normal visitors spend more time in line than doing anything else, but you know better. With an inexpensive subscription to Ridemax software, you can stay out of line and easily do in two days what it takes most people three to four days to cover. In fact, I once used it to do almost all of Disneyland in a single day and had time to spare. Disneyland Discount Tickets for California Residents Southern California University Students: Some area universities offer discounted, one-park, one-day Disneyland discount tickets for their students. Check with your Student Union.

California Teachers: Members of ACSA, CTA, CRTA and First Financial Credit Union can get Disneyland discount tickets through TSA Special Services by phone or mail. They were offering excellent discounts on one-day tickets in late 2008, but their other offers were less impressive and you have to order far enough in advance to allow for mail delivery. Southern Californians: If you live in zip codes 90000-93599, Disney offers frequent special deals and discounts for online purchases along with special discounts on annual passes. If you have out-of-town visitors and own an annual pass, you may also be able to get Disneyland discount tickets for your visitors. AAA and CSAA Members: These California automobile clubs sometimes offer discounts, but grab your calculator before you buy. Some of their "packages" cost the same as the individual parts at full price. Employee Discounts: Some large corporations and government agencies in Southern California also offer discounted, one-day, one-park Disneyland discount tickets to their employees. Ask your Human Resources department.

Other Ways to Get Disneyland Discount Tickets Some area hotels offer discount Disneyland tickets with a room rental. United Kingdom Residents: Theme Park Direct offers some good discounts, but check the exchange rate before you buy. It may be cheaper to buy in U. S. dollars.

Military Discounts: Active duty, Reserve, National Guard, Retired, and DOD employees can buy Disneyland discount tickets, with the amount depending on the time of year. Check with your base MWR for information. Bring your military ID to show at the gate.

Hotel Points: This isn't exactly a discount, but you can redeem Hilton HHonors Points for Disneyland passes.