Prepaid cellphone planes used to be sketchy alternatives for those with lessthan stellar credit ratings, but not anymore. They can be ideal foranyone who's had enough of restrictive two-year contracts, scaryoverage fees, or micromanagement of cell phone minutes. Likewise,while they used to be more expensive than traditional plans,prepaid costs have begun to fall, and the plans have become justanother way to break into the cell phone game. As the popularity ofprepaid has skyrocketed, even the big brand-name carriers havejumped onto the bandwagon. Prepaid plans are pretty self-explanatory: youopen an account and pay for airtime up front. When you run out ofminutes, you either pony up for more or, if you've had enough,simply let your plan expire. Want to switch carriers or cancel yourservice? No problem--you're not under contract, so you're free tojump ship anytime. The Prepaid's Benefit The big advantage of prepaid is that there'slittle hassle and no commitment. By contrast, if you sign up for atraditional plan with a major cellular carrier, you'll likely signa contract binding you for a year or more. If, for some reason youdon't want to use your postpaid anymore, you will have to pay apenalty fee for this act. Another plus of prepaid plans is that youwon't have to endure a credit check; in some cases, you won't evenneed a credit card. With Virgin Mobile in Canada, for instance, youcan walk into a Virgin Mega store, grab a phone with prepaidminutes off the rack, plunk down your cash, and startdialing. How To Use Prepaid Plan To get started with a prepaid plan, you buya phone and a set amount of service. For some carriers, you payspecifically for a bucket of minutes, ranging from 30 to 1,000; forother carriers, you buy the equivalent of a calling card (say,$25). When you use up your minutes or your calling card, your phonestops working, and you must buy more--thus, avoiding overagecharges. You can shop through the carrier's Web site, or you can goto a carrier store or a local retailer and buy your phone andminutes in person. While most carriers have simple plans where youjust buy minutes as you need them, others have monthly rates orauto pay options where your credit or ATM card is automaticallycharged a set dollar amount each month. As you make calls, theper-minute cost is deducted from the monthly amount until you haveno more money or time left. Disadvantage of Prepaid While you might like the idea of no hassleor commitment, you'll pay a price for that convenience. First ofall, you'll probably end up spending more per minute over the longrun than you would if you signed a contract. This is especiallytrue for anyone who uses a cell phone several hours a week. Whileyou can get as low as 10 cents a minute with some prepaid carriers,there are often additional costs such as daily access fees(sometimes as much as $1 a day) or minutes that expire after just30 days. On the equipment side, prepaid-only carriers typicallydon't have the latest bleeding-edge phones, and the majors willlimit your handset choices. While some carriers are starting tobreak the trend (for example, the sleek Motorola Razr V3 offered byCingular and T-Mobile, as well as Verizon's prepay Razr V3c),others offer little more than budget models. So if you're dying toget a smart phone such as the Trio 700w, you'll have to sign acontract to do so or pay a premium for an unlocked version.Finally, with some prepaid carriers, you won't be able to port yourcurrent phone number over to a prepaid phone--and you can't takeyour prepaid phone number with you to another carrier. Be sure tocheck first. How Much It Will Cost Most prepaid carriers charge anything from10 to 60 cents a minute, depending on the plan--and there are abewildering number of variations to consider. The bottom line isthat there's no one prepaid carrier with an exceptionally good orbad deal, just a dizzying array of variations that may or may notmake sense depending on how you use your phone. Read the fine printand consider the big picture before making yourchoice. The Plans You Can Choose From Of the major U.S. carriers, Cingular,T-Mobile, and Verizon now offer prepaid plans. Meanwhile, othercompanies without the network infrastructure of the big fourcarriers are getting in on the act. These MVNOs (mobile virtualnetwork operators)--including Virgin Mobile, Boost Mobile,TracFone, and Liberty Wireless--buy huge batches of minutes fromthe traditional wireless carriers, essentially piggybacking onthose networks to offer their own brands of pay-as-you-go wirelessservice. While MVNOs didn't used to have the extra services thatthe big carriers did, such as text messaging, ring-tone and gamingdownloads, and Web browsing, that's beginning tochange. Prepaid Plans From Other Carriers Alltel A smaller carrier, Alltel's coverageis almost nationwide, but significant areas remain where onlyroaming coverage is available. Boost Mobile An offshoot of the staid,business-focused Nextel, Boost Mobile is a "lifestyle based" MVNOcarrier that's aiming squarely for the youth market. Armed withsnazzy versions of Motorola's sensible handsets and push-to-talk(PTT) walkie-talkie functionality on Nextel's I DEN network, Boostoffers some features not available on Virgin Mobile. Liberty Wireless Launched in 2002 by InPhonic, a U.S.-based online seller of wireless products andservices, Liberty Wireless offers a generic, stripped-down prepaidservice through the Sprint PCS network. TracFone Wireless A subsidiary of LatinAmerican wireless giant America M vil, TracFone offers a bare-bonesprepaid service that doesn't have the bells and whistles ofyouth-oriented MVNOs such as Virgin Mobile or Boost; however, ithas a large national service footprint thanks to its agreementswith a variety of wireless carriers, and its phones are availablein more than 65,000 retail stores. Mobile phoneradiation and health concerns have been raised, especiallyfollowing the enormous increase in the use of wireless mobiletelephony throughout the world (as of August 2005, there were morethan 2 billion users worldwide). Mobile phones use electromagneticradiation in the microwave range, and some believe this may beharmful to human health. These concerns have induced a large bodyof research (both epidemiological and experimental, in non-humananimals and in humans). Concerns about effects on health have alsobeen raised regarding other digital wireless systems, such as datacommunication networks. The World Health Organization, based uponthe consensus view of the scientific and medical communities,states that health effects (e.g. headaches) are very unlikely to becaused by cellular phones or their base stations and expects tomake recommendations about mobile phones in October2009. However, some national radiation advisoryauthorities, including those of Austria, France, Germany, andSweden recommended to their citizens measures to minimize exposure.Examples of the recommendations are: Use hands-free to decrease the radiation tothe head. Keep the mobile phone away from thebody. Do not telephone in a car without an externalantenna. The use of "hands-free" was not recommendedby the British Consumers' Association in a statement in November2000 as they believed that exposure was increased. However,measurements for the (then) UK Department of Trade and Industry andothers for the French l Agence fran aise de s curit sanitaireenvironmental showed substantial reductions. In 2005 ProfessorLawrie Challis and others said clipping a ferrite bead ontohands-free kits stops the radio waves travelling up the wire andinto the head. Overall Health Risks Many scientific studies have investigatedpossible health effects of mobile phone radiations. These studiesare occasionally reviewed by some scientific committees to assessoverall risks. The most recent assessment was published in 2007 bythe European Commission Scientific Committee on Emerging and NewlyIdentified Health Risks (SCENIHR). It concludes from the availableresearch that no significant health effect has been demonstratedfrom mobile phone radiation at normal exposure levels: Normal exposure to mobile phone radiationcannot cause headaches or dizziness, nor can it cause braincancers, neurological effects or reproductive effects. A few inconclusive studies suggest that itmay cause a benign tumour of the auditory nerve. However, more studies concerning potentialhealth effects on children are needed. Mobile Phones and Cancer In 2006 a large Danish study about theconnection between mobile phone use and cancer incidence waspublished. It followed over 420,000 Danish citizens for 20 yearsand showed no increased risk of cancer. The German Federal Officefor Radiation Protection (BfS) consider this report asinconclusive. In order to investigate the risk of cancerfor the mobile phone user, a cooperative project between 13countries has been launched called INTERPHONE. The idea is thatcancers need time to develop so only studies over 10 years are ofinterest. The following studies of long time exposurehave been published: A Danish study (2004) that took place over 10years and found no evidence to support a link. A Swedish study (2005) that draws theconclusion that "the data do not support the hypothesis that mobilephone use is related to an increased risk of glioma ormeningioma." A British study (2005) that draws theconclusion that "The study suggests that there is no substantialrisk of acoustic neuroma in the first decade after starting mobilephone use. However, an increase in risk after longer term use orafter a longer lag period could not be ruled out." A German study (2006) that states "Inconclusion, no overall increased risk of glioma or meningioma wasobserved among these cellular phone users; however, for long-termcellular phone users, results need to be confirmed before firmconclusions can be drawn." A joint study conducted in northern Europethat draws the conclusion that "Although our results overall do notindicate an increased risk of glioma in relation to mobile phoneuse, the possible risk in the most heavily exposed part of thebrain with long-term use needs to be explored further before firmconclusions can be drawn." Other studies on cancer and mobile phonesare: A Swedish scientific team at the KarolinskaInstitute conducted an epidemiological study (2004) that suggestedthat regular use of a mobile phone over a decade or more wasassociated with an increased risk of acoustic neuroma, a type ofbenign brain tumor. The increase was not noted in those who hadused phones for fewer than 10 years. The INTERPHONE study group from Japanpublished the results of a study of brain tumour risk and mobilephone use. They used a new approach: determining the SAR inside atumour by calculating the radiofrequency field absorption in theexact tumour location. Cases examined included glioma, meninigioma,and pituitary adenoma. They reported that the overall odds ratio(OR) was not increased and that there was no significant trendtowards an increasing OR in relation to exposure, as measured bySAR.