Big match-up in all the fitness equipment is the treadmill which is the venerable champ versus the elliptical trainer which is the upstart. The treadmill has actually been the most popular equipment in the fitness industry for many years, and still it dominates the overall sales volume but at the same time, elliptical trainer sales are also growing at a considerable pace. As a matter of fact, the rate of increase in sales of elliptical trainers is surpassing the rate of increase in sales of treadmills. There seems to be an appeal to the baby boomers due to the fact that their joints and muscles start responding from years of abuse. Requires Low Maintenance - Lesser impact due to constant contact with the pedals means less wear and tear of an elliptical trainer as compared to other machines required for cardio workout. Small Footprint - It does not take up your valuable floor space. Accomplish Your Goals - You can accomplish a number of fitness goals with the help of an elliptical trainer. These include potential heart health as well as weight loss. Comfort is always important and it has been proven that if you enjoy exercise, then you'll surely continue to reap its benefits. There is some degree of impact, but as compared to walking or jogging, the impact is almost insignificant. As your legs and knees move in an elliptical motion, the impact offered by an elliptical trainer is greatly reduced. In case of an elliptical trainer, there is no reverse and jolting motion. The fluid and low -impact motion of an elliptical trainer delays the onset of fatigue. This further allows you to train for a longer duration and also much more effectively. It helps in the strengthening of l egs, glutes as well as hips without putting any kind of unnecessary strain on your joints. The upper torso is in synchronized motion with the legs and results in toning of arms, shoulders, back and chest. Drawbacks of an Elliptical Trainer - The only drawback of an elliptical trainer is that some people find the elliptical motion awkward in-spite of the fact that it offers a combination of upper and lower body exercises. Such people prefer the simplicity of a traditional treadmill but for those people who suffer from injuries or strained joints an elliptical trainer offers the best possible solution. As far as total body workout is concerned, an elliptical trainer will work on the upper and lower body, but it will not work in the way weight training does. As a matter of fact i t works out limited body muscles and if you actually wish to get a total body workout, then you still have to go through various stations of weight machines. Consider your goals and also the goals of other members in your household before you begin your search. Most of the families have more than one potential exerciser that is likely to use the equipment. Due to this reason, It's very important to consider their needs and goals too. Runners are going benefit from its non-impact movement which will act as a complement to running. The older users are going to appreciate the ease of the motion along with fluidity offered by this equipment. Start shopping with a visit to an authorized fitness retailer. Remember to make a list of all the local retailers who are specialized in fitness equipment. These retailers will have higher quality equipment, educated staff and they can also help you to assemble your product and provide service in an effective manner. These dealers may also be associated with personal trainers who to help you in starting your program. When you go to a store, you must be prepared to test the elliptical trainer in a manner in which you are going to use it. Any unit will seem to be adequate if you test it just for 5 minutes but when you actually begin to put an elliptical trainer through its paces by using different programs, adjusting the ramp, or by exercising in forward as well as reverse motions that you will notice major differences in terms of quality and comfort. The best varieties of elliptical trainers will help in utilizing a variety of muscle groups which will further depend on angle and the direction of motion. Plan to wear comfortable exercise clothes along with walking or jogging shoes. Must Have's in an Elliptical Trainer Adjustable incline. Adjustment of ramp incline not only helps to vary your focus on different muscle groups but also helps to add variety to your routine. Only a few elliptical trainers offer this feature, but it's actually worth finding as the added variety can help in enhancing motivation and reducing boredom. You're unlikely to find this feature in case of an elliptical with upper-body motion but if you do, then you must be cautious as this feature may present safety concerns about balance during workout. Elliptical motion . This kind of motion helps in providing closest simulation to running and walking without the impact. A very important factor that you need to look for is the feel of motion. In case of some machines, you will feel a "kick" in their motion when your heel comes off the platform and obviously you don't wish to feel any kind of "bounce" or "kick" in your motion. Try to find an elliptical trainer that is capable of providing you with a true elliptical movement pattern in forward as well as backward directions. Is the movement smooth? This is actually critical question while trying an elliptical trainer. You can determine this by trying various types of units. Try to spend almost 20 minutes while exercising on a particular unit. There should not be any unusual stress on your hips or knees. Moreover, while using this unit, it should give you the ability to exercise in a neutral position. It means that there should not be a need to reach for the handrails or the need to bend over. Upper body motion. Some elliptical trainers have upper body levers which help to add an element of upper body workout. In case you are not strength training, then this feature can help you to accomplish upper-body strengthening. Make sure that both upper and lower body motions are comfortable as well as intuitive. There should not be a need to compromise with your position. You must test different machines in order to find the one that is most comfortable. Forward and Reverse motions . An elliptical trainer's ability to move in forward and reverse motion helps to add variety as well as challenge to your workout. This helps to reduce the risk of any kind of repetitive use injuries. Most of the elliptical trainers have this feature. It must be noted that in case of an elliptical trainer, an adjustable ramp which is further combined with forward as well as reverse motions helps to vary the movement, muscle involvement along with intensity of workout in both the directions. It is equally important to confirm that the dealer has his own service staff who have been trained and authorized to service the equipment. Programming and Motivation Elapsed time, incline and stride are the basics of an elliptical trainer from fitness point of view. Having an indication of calories burned can be quite motivating. Consider all the additional information as well as features that will help to keep you motivated. Some of the useful and motivating features are: Heart Rate or HR interactivity - Measuring HR is a sure indicator of progress as well as intensity. Everyone should have a target heart rate (HR) range and you should always work within this range. Too high HR may result in an injury. Too low HR will not let you reach your goals. The best elliptical trainers are capable of adjusting your workout variables as they measure your heart rate in order to ensure that you will stay within the required range. In fact there are two categories of elliptical trainers. They are HR display vs HR interactive. HR interactive is the ideal because the machine is capable of making automatic adjustments in order to keep you at the desired HR level. You have to just punch in the desired heart rate and after that the machine will respond on its own throughout the workout. Custom and pre-set programs - The biggest reason why people quit a program is due to boredom. If you have a product that provides a myriad of programs, it will will help in keeping a program not only fresh but full of variety. Some elliptical trainers have an ability to customize a program according to your specific needs. This is obviously a great feature. Try to look for some research that is involved behind these programs. Custom Courses - The best cross trainers will "remember" all your favorite workouts and allow you to create your custom course. Such trainers have the ability to create and the ability store custom courses so that you may duplicate them again. Ease of Use - It has been found in the world of personal training that over the years, a number of clients are intimidated or frustrated with the number of buttons and features on electronic equipment. This becomes another obstacle against regular exercise. The best elliptical trainers keep it simple. A good elliptical should not take more than two to three steps for launching a program. Try to look for an elliptical trainer that offers a "quick start" or a manual mode. Such modes require only one or two pushes of a button and there you go. Variety - The secret of success in any exercise program is its consistency over the long haul. In case you can find a product that is capable of adding variety along with challenge to your routine, then you will surely stay motivated and quite obviously you will also be successful in reaching your goals. Try to look for features like adjustable ramp, adjustable resistance levels along with forward and reverse motions. Minor tweaks in these variables will help you in keeping your routine fresh as well as challenging.