History and production In 1974, author Michael Crichton wrote a screenplay based on his own experiences as a medical resident in a busy ER. The screenplay went nowhere, and Crichton focused on other topics. In 1990, he published the novel Jurassic Park, and in 1993 began a collaboration with director Steven Spielberg on the film adaptation of that. The Crichton-Spielberg team then returned to ER but decided to film the story as a two-hour pilot for a television series rather than as a feature film. Spielberg's Amblin Entertainment provided John Wells as the show's executive producer. The script used to shoot the pilot was virtually unchanged from what Crichton had written in 1974.

The only substantive changes made by the producers in 1994 made the Dr. Lewis character a woman and the Dr. Benton character an African-American, and shortened the running time by about 20 minutes in order for the pilot to air in a two-hour block on network TV. Due to a lack of time and money to build a set, the pilot episode of ER was filmed in the former Linda Vista Community Hospital in Los Angeles, an old facility that ceased operating as a medical center in 1990. A set modeled after Los Angeles County General Hospital's emergency room was built soon after at the Warner Bros. studios in Burbank, California, although the show makes extensive use of location shoots in Chicago, most notably the city's famous "L" train platforms. ER premiered on Monday, September 19, 1994 from 9:00-11:00 p.m. (EDT) and moved into the 10:00 p.m Thursday night timeslot three days later, where it remained for all fifteen seasons. Steven Spielberg left the show after one year in a producer's chair, but he made one critical decision with lasting effects: the Carol Hathaway character, who died at the end of the original script for the pilot episode, was retained. ER was filmed in 1.78:1 widescreen from the start, even though it was not broadcast in widescreen until the seventh season when it began appearing in the 1080i HD format where NBC was being broadcast digitally. Since the sixth episode of Season 7, it has appeared in letterbox format when in standard definition. As a result, every US DVD box set shows the widescreen versions of the episodes, including those episodes originally broadcast in 1.33:1 (full screen) format.

The episodes also appear in 1080i widescreen when rerun on TNT HD, though the first six seasons still show in fullscreen on the digital TNT network. Only the live episode "Ambush" at the beginning of the fourth season, and the opening credits for the first six seasons, are in standard 4:3 aspect ratio. ER has had many memorable episodes, and is particularly notable for broadcasting a live episode, "Ambush," in 1997, with the NBC camera crew disguised as a PBS crew making a documentary film in the hospital.

The actors performed the show again three hours later so that the West Coast airing would be live as well. This episode received Emmy Award nominations for Outstanding Directing and Outstanding Lighting Direction (Electronic), and won the Emmy for Outstanding Technical Direction/Camera/Video for a Series. Most episodes center on the ER, with almost all scenes at the hospital. There is, however, often at least one scene showing the goings-on of the ER staff outside the hospital. Also, there is a tradition to feature storylines each season completely outside of the ER. One early such instance involved a road trip near Las Vegas, Nevada (Drs. Ross and Greene). Season Eight included a storyline in Hawaii (Drs.

Greene and Corday). More recently, the series has included storylines in Democratic Republic of Congo (Drs. Kovac and Carter) and Darfur, Sudan (Drs.

Pratt and Carter, with Noah Wyle appearing as a guest star in the season following his departure from the show).

This summer I got to tour, at long last, the set of "ER," the medical drama that begins its 15th and final season on NBC at 9 p.m CT tonight. And I was reminded of why that show set everyone on their ear 14 years ago. Why the so-called "war of the hospital shows" turned quickly into a rout, with "ER" becoming the No. 1 show in television and "Chicago Hope" turning into a soap opera occasionally punctuated by Mandy Patinkin bursting into song. As I stood in the trauma unit of County General Hospital on the Warner studio lot, and as I reflected on the battered drop ceiling and screened flourescent lighting and carefully arranged hospital gear and bedding, I was reminded of nothing so much as my one night in a real-life Chicago emergency room; of a bright-eyed young M.D. walking in and doing instant triage with a dozen or so of us arranged in a semi-circle; of waiting my turn on a gurney that smelled of pee while the guy with the bloody gauze around his head and other injured souls took precedence over my bread-knife wound; and of realizing there is nothing more democratic in this country than trauma care (this was before I knew anything about the uninsured). "ER" was a revelation.

The doctors on the show were handsome, and they inevitably fell in and out of love with each other, and they saved lives and all those things TV docs are supposed to do. But they also seemed like real doctors in the way they responded to each new case that came bursting into their sanctuary of work. That's why I was pleased to learn recently that Anthony Edwards, whose Dr Mark Greene tried never to let his emotions show, whose competence felt hard-earned and not given to him by the script gods, will make an appearance this season.

(To those partial to Noah Wyle, you already know he is coming back because you saw the commercial all summer.) Even through the hostage dramas and multiple explosions (including the one that ended season 14 in a cliffhanger) and other absurdities, "ER" never stopped trying to recreate the authenticity of being a patient, sick and fearful in a room full of strangers; or of being a doctor, being professional under fire, sardonically swapping stories with colleagues, dealing with incompetent and malicious higher-ups and doing things to kill the pain of not saving the world. In a way, though, "ER" got stuck in the era of '90s television that it dominated. With rare exceptions (like the episode where Ray Liotta played a dying alcoholic), its patient seemed less true-to-life, the situations more outlandish, the doctors more like TV doctors. TV shows became more complex and ambitious. "ER" was supplanted as the top-rated medical drama by "House," a show that combines a disease whodunit of the week with a preternaturally smart solver who has the pathologies of any 10 doctors on "ER" combined.

(Tellingly, an "ER" last April smacked of a "House" ripoff, with a hidden secret revealing a moral dilemma linked to a fatal ailment.) And then there was reality TV. From "Trauma in the ER" to this summer's surprise hit "Hopkins," lightweight cameras and microphones have allowed TV crews to document all the drama and emotion of actual ERs without those pesky writers and actors. The ratings for reality medical shows can't match "ER" at its peak, but then again, what show ever will?

The point is, the realism of these unscripted shows made the scripted one seem contrived and hokey. "ER's" strong suit remains the romance of medics under fire, such as the darling attraction of opposites Tony (John Stamos) and Sam (Linda Cardellini). Cast changes will continue, with the arrival of Angela Bassett as a tough-minded administrator (Courtney B. Vance will play her husband) adding even more interest to what will likely be a parade of guest appearances by "ER" alumni all season long.

As the show has gone on it has received some critical responses. Although this show is respected as one of the best medical drama's out there people began to question whether it went on too long. This following review of one of the episodes from the final season is clear as to why E.R. probably should have finished sooner. Last night's episode was somewhat engaging, but only in the way that the same plot we've seen in other incarnations was being lobbed back at us. We began with foreshadowing on Luka (Goran Visnjic) and Abby's (Maura Tierney) relationship as Luka was suddenly called away to Croatia, by himself. Most of us know that this is Visnjic 's last season on "ER" and clumsy allusions to terrorism early in the episode created a "wonder how they'll make this happen" feeling of non-tension. As happens at least once a season, a promising new doctor has been introduced (Stanley Tucci) who, despite his acting chops and threats to force the ER to straighten up and fly right, will not be able to stir the pot enough to freshen the show after so many years.

Finally, we saw yet another heavyhanded shoehorning in of current events that seemed contrived. War is bad? People are getting tortured over in Iraq? Despite the stale subject matter, what was most disappointing is that the episode ended on Gates (John Stamos) and Neela (Parminder Nagra) fighting through an explosion of the old "can't-miss!" Nagra is a beautiful actress who has done well on the show, but she and Stamos generate zero heat.

While Stamos is easy on the eyes and seems to do okay on the show (but seriously, isn't this guy sick of taking roles wherein he raises some kid that's not really his?), it's not good that he was overshadowed by Tucci, who was on the series for all of two episodes. It just seems impossible for "ER" to make itself fresh or relevant again. We've had plane crashes, helicopter crashes, bus crashes, mass shootings, you name it. Mothers who die in childbirth, babies who die in childbirth, kids from gang shootings, mysterious and wise dying old people. Now we've even had more than one doctor-turned-amputee. What else is there? Maybe the "ER" producers should follow in the steps of Dick Wolf and do "ER" spinoffs like "ER: Pediatrics" or "ER: Special Patients Unit" to at least mix up the routine a little bit but for the time being E.R. has had its day.