Isn't it time to move up a gear, and join the professional truckers too? Fiberglass Antennas BENEFITS AND USE Fiberglass antennas are among the most durable and versatile citizen band receivers and transmitters available. That's because their thick fiberglass design holds up well against the elements.

Moreover they can withstand impacts that would bend or even snap off other antennas, that are made from plastic or thin metal whips instead. They are also compatible with a huge variety of mounts, allowing for nearly unlimited installation possibilities and repairs along the road. Fiberglass antennas are most commonly used with pick-up trucks, semis and off-road vehicles, although they are steadily being adopted by more avant-garde truckers too. INSTALLATION AND MOUNTING Fiberglass antennas must be mated with the right mount for effective installation. For acceptable performance you need to have at least half of the antenna above the roof line only - another great advantage over other possibilities. As with all other antennas, the longer the antenna length and the higher it's mounted the better the performance gets. Another part you also need to buy is CB coax cable to complete the job. Unfortunately, although fiberglass antennas are durable, they can still snap off if they take a hard direct blow, so it's best to make sure you always use them with a suitable antenna spring .

USER'S OPINION These antennas were designed with the American Trucker in mind, and are perfect for high-speed highway driving because they are stiff and stay more vertical than steel antennas. They even work well clamped to the mirror frame, where they can deflect down automatically if they strike an obstruction. However, for off-road use these antennas present some problems... Durability is at the top of the list. In densely-populated districts like Washington frequent overhead obstructions can be a liability. Fiberglass is brittle (especially in the winter) and it is not uncommon to have them shatter when they strike an obstacle like a low overhead bridge.

When they crack they usually break the wire winding inside. This can damage your radio if you continue to transmit with it. However, they don't even need to crack to break. If they take a hard hit - or scrape against rocks a few times - the wire can become invisibly damaged inside and cause inadvertent radio failure too. The biggest problem is that you don't always know when they are damaged, and keep using them until it's too late and the damage is done. Some truckers have even fried their radios twice, because they didn't know what caused the first one to fail (and hooked up the repaired radio to the same damaged antenna). Weight is another consideration. Fiberglass antennas are heavier, and hence less flexible than steel antennas.

Because of this, they work their mounting system harder. That's why they need to be mounted on a heavy duty ball mount. A front fender bracket-mount is simply not up to the task of holding on to a fiberglass antenna, especially under the harsh conditions of off-road use. Otherwise, the vibrations and the swinging momentum forces associated with a stiff and heavy fiberglass antenna will cause stresses to the mounting surface - and the surrounding area too.

In time this results in stress cracks and fractures around the mount, as well as the progressive loosening of the hardware itself. In such cases, a spring can actually make things worse, as it allows the heavy "baseball bat" to swing back and forth more violently. TECHNOLOGY Technically speaking, the wound fiberglass antennas fool the radio into thinking it has bigger antenna attached to it. Some manufacturers even boast of having a full quarter wave of antenna wound around the shaft implying a larger antenna in a smaller package.

While this is fine in theory (because you are providing the radio with the required length of antenna wire, and the radio has the fifty ohm load it needs to perform correctly) how the antenna really uses that power is another matter. In reality, it's performance will only be as good a overall length, because you can't fool radio waves with clever advertising copy. In order for a quarter wave antenna to perform like a quarter wave antenna should, it needs to be 102 inches long, period. Anything shorter and it will not perform that way. Don't get me wrong, I'm not trying to knock the Wilson product. Their antennas work fine and are perfect for the right applications. They just aren't as reliable as their comparable commercial grade steel antennas, and hence not the aerial of choice unless you're traveling with a spare.

Some customers even say that since they don't out-perform a good quality conventional antenna why put up with all the shortcomings of the fiberglass in the first place? Besides, if you're going to put a ball mount on your rig in any case, then why not have the ultimate radiating element attached to it, in the form of a genuine "bullet proof" quarter wave stainless steel whip instead SECOND OPINION A steel antenna just more flexible, and there's no denying that. It's easier on the mounting surface, there are no wires to break, and no matter how hard you hit something with it, it will not break, and is easily straightened by hand when bent too. Moreover if it gets so twisted over time so you can't bear to look at it, a new whip can cost you as little as $10. A further advantage of the steel antenna is that it can easily be bent over and secured to the rain gutter with a clip to keep it down and out of the way when not in use, or when parking in a low overhead garage. True, they do have a tendency to "whip" around, but this can be restricted by the use of a tether made from a light nylon cord - or heavy fishing line if that's all that you have handy at the time.

In fact, you may never have to replace a 102" stainless whip - unless you lost it that is. I even heard of a driver who forgot to tighten their quarter wave into the ball mount. Four vehicles and twenty years later when they stopped for a call of nature at the same place, they spotted it lying under a bush, plugged it in, and everything still worked perfectly to their amazement.

The Best Wilson Radio Antenna The best one is the one that's best for you and for your special needs and vehicle: Base Load Antennas, although the weakest attach readily owing to a magnetic base Most powerful Trucker Steel Whips cost more, but are the ultimate rave for the driver far out of town who needs reliability Fiberglass aerials can be mounted as far down as on the bumper bar, but have been known to snap off just when you needed them the most. It's appropriate to end this review with salutes of two different kinds. The first to Wilson for keeping the nation's citizen band radios up and working well. And the second? How could you even ask? Let's salute America's truck divers together now, for driving carefully and for keeping the wheels of commerce rolling.