While Pit Houses are identified as one of the first permanent dwellings in America designed by indigenous architects, these were soon replaced by another unique structure. Starting around 725 A.D., the Anasazi of the Four Corners region (including Utah, Arizona, Colorado, and New Mexico) developed a radically different form of home construction - this time employing a mortar consisting of straw mixed with sun baked mud. This material that we call Adobe was used to construct the outer walls of Anasazi dwellings, which soon proved to be a more effective shelters than the semi-underground Pit Houses they were used to.

Over time, these structures evolved from single roomed units to multi roomed, and even multi storied compounds. A fine example is the Pueblo Bonito of Chaco Canyon in present day New Mexico. That five story building is made up of over eight hundred rooms all of which are habitable. When Spanish explorers began their invasion of the western expanses of North America, it was Adobe architecture that they found.

Early settlers used the word "Pueblo" to describe these Adobe structures. While Pueblo is actually a Spanish word for a village, this term has become synonymous with this type of architecture, and the peoples who live in them. Although the Anasazi have long dispersed, the results of their invention are popular to this very day. In fact, the Pueblo Indians are still so named, due to the prevalence of these structures within their communities. Regardless of its size and scope, the Adobe pueblo follows a similar architectural model. Most structures begin with a log frame, which can either be a single room, or several rooms that are connected via internal doorways. Once the frame is in place, the mixture of straw and mud that forms the Adobe compound can either be applied as mortar, or fashioned into bricks and built around the frame.

Other homes are built entirely of these bricks. When a larger dwelling is required, indigenous architects build on multiple levels - and thus were created the first apartment complexes in North America. The flat roofs and light frames of the pueblos made it possible to stack separate dwellings up to five stories high, and to connect these additions through a series of internal ladders. The years between 750 to 1050 AD are called the Pueblo Period of Anasazi culture. It was during this period that the Pit House was gradually replaced by Adobe structures. The Anasazi retained them for their Kiva's though. These were semi-subterranean chambers used in their religious ceremonies. At the height of their cultural development, the Anasazi began to fade from the frontiers of North America.

After an extended period of drought, complicated by an increase in invasions by surrounding tribes, the Anasazi ceased to exist an a unified nation at all by the end of the 1300s Their successor tribes (the Keres, Tewas, Tiwas, Towas, Hopiu, and Zunis (whom the Spanish named Pueblo Indians) continue to use Adobe architecture, and maintain cultural traits that are similar to their Anasazi ancestors.

It's the same elsewhere in the world. We are all human beings although there are so many different languages. Sometimes religion and culture causes so much aggravation that we go to war with fearsome weapons.

When you think about it carefully, this is crazy. It's time the nations learned to live together in peace and harmony.

The main thing that distinguishes Puebloan Indians from other Indian native tribes is their distinctive homes, which they call Pueblos. Actually, the word Pueblo is Spanish for town . A Pueblo is also a large building with many rooms in it, not unlike a modern apartment building. In fact, some Pueblos had hundreds of people living in structures four or five stories high. In larger Pueblos, there were sometimes several individual Pueblo buildings built around an open square. Really big Pueblos like the Zuni or some of the Hopi Pueblos built, had several of these open spaces.

These were used all year round for ceremonies and group activities that built up their communities. When the Spanish invaders arrived, and saw the towns and buildings, they named the people who built them the Pueblo Indians. It's just like calling the people in your street "house people". The first thing that strikes one when viewing an old photograph of a traditional Pueblo are the wooden frames up front. These are for shade during the hot New Mexico summers, when women would spend the whole day under them.

The little domes you'd see are ovens made of mud bricks. These ovens are called "hornos". The women would bake their corn tortillas and other foods in them.

Sometimes, an older example has doors on the ground floor. In the old days, no Pueblo would have had doors like that. There would be ladders to get onto the roof to enter the house from on top. They could also pull the ladders up if an enemy attacked them.

In the fictitious picture I mentioned, note the rows of logs sticking out of the walls up at the top of the house that support the roof. These were built from smaller sticks laid over larger logs and covered over with mud plaster. These roofs were not ideal if it rained often or for several days on end. Fortunately, the Pueblo Indians lived in a dry and arid climate so they actually worked quite well. The layers of mud and wood were good for insulation from the heat in the summer, and from the cold of winter too.

When you think about it carefully, the Pueblo people were a blessed people before the invaders arrived. They had everything they needed to build their homes, unlike modern town and city dwellers like us who have to pay for them. Do you think that you could go out into the desert like that and live for almost nothing? When I thought about it carefully, I decided I was a little old. If you're younger and more energetic though, why not give it a try yourself?

Pueblos were built in various ways. One method was to use rocks to build a wall, and then to cover over the stones with mud plaster on the outside. Another way was to use big bricks made out of dried mud. This is called Adobe brick construction, and is the focus of this article. An Adobe brick wall would be covered with a mud plaster just like the rock wall was, so both would look the same when finished. The roof was similarly made by laying large logs on top of the walls, with smaller logs and sticks laid on top and mud packed down on them. This mud roof was smoothed out to convert the roof to living space, although as pointed out this only worked in dry climates like the southwest, which was where the Pueblos lived. A horno is a kind of oven used by Pueblo Indians to cook bread and tortillas in.

Imagine you are looking at one now. Those are pueblo houses behind them. Notice the ladders to get up on the roof. They use the roof just like we use a porch for outdoor livng. They worked hard all day, and then chilled out on the roof in the afternoon. Even now that they have doors, they still use the roof like that, and still keep ladders to get up onto them.

Imagine the ends of the logs sticking out of the walls on the houses too. Did you know that Pueblo Indians are farmers? In fact, most of their food comes from the crops they plant and tend.

Corn is their main source of food. Did you notice that I used the verb "is" and not "was". The Pueblos are still here and they still farm.

They also raised many other crops in the olden days. For food they raised beans and squash. They also raised cotton that they used to make cloth.

They planted gourds that could be dried out and used as containers. They stored and cooked their food in well-made pottery. In fact, Pueblos are famous for their beautiful pottery. Much of this pottery bears painted designs that are considered very pretty. The men also hunted deer, rabbits, antelope, bear and any other wild game they could find for meat. The women and children meantime would collect wild foods like berries when they were in season.

They also knew how to grow cotton and weave cotton cloth. And so their clothes were mainly made of cotton. They also used leather and fur to stay warm in winter. The men would wear a breach cloth just like Tarzan wears in movies today. Now you know why the invaders thought they looked so primitive and warlike.

Unfortunately the remnants of the Pueblo peoples are just a shadow of their former glory and independent spirit. Some live in houses and follow lifestyles their ancestors would have hardly recognized - sad victims of universal advertising standards that recognize only one set of values.

Today, these clothes are a mix of the old styles and materials, and new European fashions. The land they farmed was owned by the tribe, but each family was given the right to farm a plot of land. The family never owned that land, they just benefited from it.

This is called usufruct land ownership. This means the land is owned in common by the tribe, but families and individuals have the right to use certain parts. In fact, most Indian tribes owned land as a group and not as individuals too. The men cleared the fields and prepared the soil, while the women did most of the actual farming. They used sharp sticks to poke holes in the dirt and put seeds in each hole. Remember, they didn't have any metal tools.

The children would walk the fields every day and pick insects off the plants by hand and pull up weeds as they did so. Often, a small house was built in the field, so men and older children could sleep there overnight, and drive off wild animals to protect their crops. There were important religious ceremonies to be carried out at each stage of the farming season. These included dances and ceremonies before they began to plant. There were more dances and ceremonies while the crops were growing, to bring rain and protect the crops. The biggest dances and ceremonies of came at the time of harvest. The southwest is semi desert and very dry.

Because of this, most of the Pueblos lived along the rivers and streams where they could get water for their crops. A few lived near springs where these existed. Crops like corn need at least one hundred and twenty days of frost free weather.

Much of the southwest is mountains were it is cooler. This is why the Pueblos lived in valleys, were it was warmer in the spring and fall. The biggest river in this region is the Rio Grande. Before they came to Texas, the Tigu Puebloss lived along the Rio Grande River south of modern Albuquerque, New Mexico. The Tigua called their ancestral home Pueblo Gran Quivera. Gran Quivera was north of El Paso in the Manzano Mountains southeast of Albuquerque. Manzano means Apple in Spanish so these are called the Mountains of the Apple.

Gran Quivera settlement was begun about 800 AD. By 1300 AD it was one of the largest Pueblos. The Spanish explorer Coronado was the first European to see Gran Quivera in 1539. He called it "Pueblo de los Humanas", which means "City of the Humans". In the 1600s, more Spaniards arrived, and established their missions and settlements in New Mexico around Gran Quivera. Tragically, with the Spanish came diseases and epidemics, that killed many of the Pueblo Indians, including the Tigua at Gran Quivera. The Spanish also sometimes kidnapped Pueblo Indians to act as slaves for them in their settlements.

In the 1670s there was a severe drought that lasted several years. As a consequence, food was in short supply. The populations of Gran Quivera dwindled and got smaller. By 1675, the people were so desperate that they headed south to the Rio Grande River near modern El Paso.

They settled there and started farming. Some of the Tigua went north though, to live with their close relations at Isleta Pueblo. The Isleta Puebloans spoke Tiwa just like the Tigua, and so they bonded well. As a result, Gran Quivera was left abandoned.

The ruins are still there, and are protected by the National Park Service. The Tigua still remember Gran Quivera in their prayers and songs. A verse in one song goes, in English, "My home over there, Now I remember it, And when I see it, the mountain far away Oh, then I weep, Oh, what can I do?"

It would not be fair to blame the Spanish invaders entirely for this disaster. They did not take the rain away, or cause the crops to fail. However, they did disrupt traditional social structures - structures that otherwise might have cross-supported people.

And thus, as always, as everywhere in the world, colonialists have to shoulder responsibility for their deeds.