After Riding or Exercise Check Yes, I know you already did this today, but it never hurts to check again. You don't want to run the risk of causing soreness or injury to your horse because they have a piece of debris lodged in their hoof. Plus your horse will be more comfortable and compliant if they are not in pain, which means you will both have a more enjoyable experience. Evening Check When you bring your horse in at night, it is important to pick your horse's feet again. I know it may sound like an unnecessary task, but it is important. Check again for lodged stones, injuries or bruising that may have happened during the day. t may look very plain and dull but free choice grass and hay diet can be most beneficial for the horse. Horses that are moderately worked and exercised can get all their energy needs from free choice pasture or a good quality hay. Many nutrients are found in the 'free range' choice, such as zinc, sulphur, copper, phosphorus, calcium and more. If your horse has free range access the horse will get all the nutrients it needs to grow healthy strong hooves. Many horses do not have free range access and if this is the case with your horse, you may want to supplement the horses' feed with biotin. It contains all the nutrients your horse needs to grow strong healthy hooves. Most horses will benefit from this supplement. It is important to use this supplement for at least six months to a year, since that is how long it will take for you to be able to see any of the benefits in new hoof growth. Horses that work hard, such as endurance racing, sports, etc. may need a higher level of energy. You may want to fine tune his diet with more protein and fiber. With any change in feed rations, it should be gradual. The rule of thumb is a 10% exchange over 4-7 weeks. But not all horses are the same so it will be better to ask your veterinarian what the best feeding program for your horse's nutritional needs is. Give your horse consistent exercise. Work on good surfaces, especially at walking and trotting, which increases circulation to your horse's hooves and promotes health a and growth. Some puncture wounds if not detected early enough may cause severe lameness or a permanent disability. Death due to tetanus may also occur if wounds are not properly treated. An untreated puncture wound will allow bacteria to enter the horse's system, resulting in mild to severe infection. Abscesses can develop in as short as two days or as long as a month after the initial injury. Picking your horse's feet on a daily basis will catch this potential problem before severe damage results. Sometimes a nail, wire or other object may pierce your horse's sole. It may fall out and the entry wound will probably be invisible by the time you pick his feet and you will not be aware of it until is shows up as an abscess. In some cases the object remains in place, to be discovered when you brush the last bits of dirt from the sole. Put your horse in his stall. Protect the punctured foot, and help the foreign object stay put either by wrapping or with a slip-on medication boot. Then call your veterinarian right away. An x-ray of the foot can show how far the object has penetrated and which structures are involved. If you pick your horse's feet out regularly, you'll find the injury as soon as possible, preventing it from further hurting your horse. Then your veterinarian can remove the object and advise a course of treatment. If your horse's pulse feels stronger than usual or its foot is warmer than normal to the touch, this is a sign of a possible abscess inside the hoof. An abscess may result from an over-looked sole puncture, badly placed shoeing nail or from a bruise or injury. If you find heat and a stronger than usual pulse in both front feet, and your horse is shifting uncomfortably from foot to foot, call your veterinarian immediately! These are signs of Laminitis, an inflammatory condition that can cause severe hoof damage and if not treated promptly it can be fatal. If your horse is shod, check his shoes each time you pick out his feet. As a general rule a horse will need shod every 4-6 weeks. A healthy hoof grows approximately an inch a month. If you leave shoes on too long, the hoof will grow out of proportion which may result in lameness. Even if you do not shoe your horse's feet they still need periodic trimming every 6-8 weeks. If your horse is shod you should look for: A sprung shoe. A shoe that is lifted away from the hoof and is not sitting flat. A missing shoe or shoes. If your horse is missing a shoe, do not ride or exercise him. Call your blacksmith right away and keep your horse stalled or in an enclosure until the blacksmith arrives. A bent or slightly shifted shoe: If the shoe has moved to one side or the other, it has shifted. This can cause damage to the sensitive hoof structure of the horse's foot when weight is applied. A loose shoe or risen clinches. If you see the ends of the nails your blacksmith trimmed and clinched are sticking out from the hoof this is a sign that the shoe is loosening. This may cause an injury. Call your blacksmith and schedule an appointment. Look for debris and small pebbles between the shoe and sole of the hoof. Signs of puncture wounds, bruising, abscess or thrush. Mud is extremely hard on your horses' shoes. If at all possible keep your horses out of deep mud. The suction of deep mud or water can easily drag off a shoe it is already loosened. Ask your farrier to teach you how to remove shoes yourself. But it is important that you know how to do this in case there comes a time that your farrier can't get to you soon and the shoes need to come off. If you can remove a sprung or loose shoe, you may save your horse unnecessary pain and hoof damage. Hoof Boot is a device made primarily of plastic or rubber and is designed to cover the hooves of a horse as an alternative to, and occasionally in addition to, horseshoes. It is often used as a protective device when the animal has a hoof injury that requires protection of the sole of the hoof, or to aid in the application of medication. There are many different designs, but all have the goal of protecting the hoof wall and sole of the horse's hoof from hard surfaces, rocks and other difficult terrain. Hoof boots are most commonly seen as a substitute for horseshoes, either as a backup for a thrown shoe when a farrier is not available, or as a temporary form of additional protection to a barefoot horse that may be subjected to conditions that its unshod hooves are not able to handle without damage. Horse boots are particularly popular for trail riding and endurance riding, though are also sometimes seen on horses in parades and on police horses who have to work on hard pavement. 'Natural Hoof Care/ Barehoof Care' is a new term, used to describe the care and use of barefooted horses in all disciplines including high performance horses. Nowadays some endurance performance horses successfully complete the Australian 160km Tom Quilty Cup barefooted. Natural Hoofcare is not just a trimming method, it is also a complete care system that allows a horse to remain barefoot through its entire life. The same system can be used to rehabilitate horses from many degenerative lameness problems, including Laminitis/Founder and navicular disease. 