Cell phone Scams - Chip-and-Pin Problems in the UK It seems that several owners of new cell phones were hacked deliberately. The phones they bought were from a factory in China, and this new phenomenon happened as they were built. "Either during the manufacturing process at a factory in China, or shortly after they came off the production line was when it must have happened." No wonder then that it's being called a "supply chain hack." Scary stuff, and yet more proof that all-computer security systems are full of potential risks. See, when I saw the "Phishing headline", I figured it was just another UK slang term for fish sticks and fries... Posted by: Jay Levitt at October 14, 2008 2:18 PM Performing at a sophisticated level, these hackers are operating at a high level, one that even rivals many foreign intelligence services! This has some worrying implication: The data security present on Payment cards requires far more than just forcing card merchants to lock down data and comply with the PCI (payment card industry data security standard). This particular hack demonstrates that card data security is on par with national security issues, and is therefore deemed safe. Card security requires wholesale rethinking of the credit card system. The leading US government authority in this area, the Federal Trade Commission, misunderstands the magnitude of the problem. The FTC is locked in an old-fashioned belief that data in-security is due to stupid merchants (like TJX) treating consumers (and their privacy) "unfairly" by failing to secure their systems properly. We need fresh thinking and better leadership on this issue from the FTC. Posted by: Benjamin Wright at October 14, 2008 2:52 PM Something odd in the first article , "The devices selectively sends account data by a wireless connection to computer servers in Lahore, Pakistan" Now call me skeptical but you would need a lot of RF Power and a big antenna to get a reliable signal by "wireless" from Europe to Pakistan... Which suggests that somebody is not telling the truth or the reporter does not have a clue about the logistics involved. The article goes on to say, "The "bugs" would read an individual's card number and the corresponding personal identification number, then package and store the data. The device would once a day call a number in Lahore to upload the data to servers there and obtain instructions on what to steal next." If correct, this suggests the "bug" is either using a telephone link that is built into the device or a cellphone module. The thought occurs to me that if they know the location of the servers, most likely they know the number as well! Which begs the question who is permitting data off of their telephone network to these numbers? I find it difficult to accept that there is an endless supply of numbers for these bugs to call as the costs involved for the criminal operators is going to be astronomic. It sure looks like somebody dropped the ball big time on this one. Posted by: Clive Robinson at October 14, 2008 3:12 PM I do not agree that WEP cracking is equivalent to "paramilitary bank heists". Having read what you have been writing on this subject, I find you often overstate the situation. In support of better security, re-thinking of the payment card integrity has already been addressed, in fact several times. PCI DSS 1.2 is based on the past two years of research. While mistakes may be made in compliance and security, accountability is more clearly demonstrated these days. There is no doubt that management, who formerly dismissed security requirements, must now face the prospect of demonstrating compliance or losing the ability to handle payment cards. Getting your drivers license does not make you a safe driver. It's just a test, a measure, and it is in place to ensure a level of basic knowledge. Who ever said that compliance was a guarantee? The bigger question surrounding compliance, is that you are hinting towards one of governance. Does PCI really represent the consumer's interest or should the government step in? So far Minnesota said "yes" to government regulation, while California said no (except where the personal health information of the governor is concerned). Posted by: Davi Ottenheimer at October 14, 2008 3:17 PM It seems one of the Telegraph links worked... And it confirmed what I thought however it appears to contain an inaccuracy: "The first circuit is designed to copy the cards details and pin number before the device has time to encrypt the information." The people over at the Cambridge Labs published details that suggested that data from the terminal to the card like the pin number is not encrypted, only the outbound connection is. This is why they got their man in the middle attack to work. I think it's about time EVM's specification became open to examination. What's the betting it has suspect security and like many other "smart card" systems of late is designed around the cheapest options? The thing about Chip-'n-Pin is that it never really was about security, only shifting risk from the banks to the card owner or merchant. All in all it's a wasted bit of technology that does not even get close to doing what it purports to. Posted by: Clive Robinson at October 14, 2008 3:30 PM I see their mistake. They neglected to add four ounces of dead weight to the devices they didn't otherwise tamper with. Posted by: Roy at October 14, 2008 3:47 PM There should be a clear line of blame. The store should be fined. The store should advertise that its supplier gave it bad products, resulting in fines. The supplier should advertise that the manufacturing company caused it to lose business.In other words accountability at the right levels, and not at the individual. 