The elbow contains three separate articulations. The humeroulnar joint is a modified hinge joint that allows flexion and extension. The humeroradial joint is a combined hinge and pivot joint that permits flexion and extension as well as rotation of the head of the radius on the capitellum of the humerus. The proximal radioulnar joint facilitates rotation during supination and pronation. The elbow also has a complex nerve innervation. The median nerve crosses the elbow medially and passes through the two heads of the pronator teres, a potential site of entrapment. The ulnar nerve passes along the medial arm and posterior to the medial epicondyle through the cubital tunnel, a likely site of compression. The radial nerve descends the arm laterally. It divides into the superficial (sensory) branch and the deep (motor, or posterior interosseous) branch. The deep branch must then pass through the arcade of Frohse, a fibrous arch formed by the proximal margin of the superficial head of the supinator muscle, where it is most susceptible to injury. When a patient presents with elbow pain, the physician should seek information about both occupational and recreational activities involving a repetitive load that could initiate a cycle of microtrauma, chronic inflammation, tissue degeneration, necrosis and, ultimately, tendon rupture. The timing of the onset of symptoms can be helpful in identify the offending activity and thus the tissues at risk for overuse. The severity of symptoms can be judged by whether they occur only after activity, with activity or at rest. It is important to determine the location of the pain and whether the pain is radiating in character. Alleviating or aggravating factors should also be identified. Repeating some types of activities over and over again can put too much strain on the elbow tendons. These activities are not necessarily high-level sports competition. Hammering nails, picking up heavy buckets, or pruning shrubs can all cause the pain of tennis elbow. Tennis elbow causes pain that starts on the outside bump of the elbow, the lateral epicondyle. The forearm muscles that bend the wrist back (the extensors) attach on the lateral epicondyle and are connected by a single tendon. Tendons connect muscles to bone. When you bend your wrist back or grip with your hand, the wrist extensor muscles contract. The contracting muscles pull on the extensor tendon. The forces that pull on these tendons can build when you grip things, hit a tennis ball in a backhand swing in tennis, or do other similar actions. Diagnosis of tennis elbow includes the individual observation and recall of symptoms, a thorough medical history, and physical examination by a physician. Diagnostic testing is usually not necessary unless there may be evidence of nerve involvement from underlying causes. X rays are usually always negative because the condition primarily affects soft tissue, in contrast to a bony disorder. Tennis elbow symptoms are very similar to a condition called radial tunnel syndrome. This condition is caused by pressure on the radial nerve as it crosses the elbow. If your pain does not respond to treatments for tennis elbow, your doctor may suggest tests to rule out problems with the radial nerve. Rest Avoid further overuse Physiotherapy - ice therapy - ultrasound - acupuncture - stretching to flexibility - muscle strengthening & rebalancing - improve general fitness - Ergonomic advice in work & sports - Splintage Wear a tennis elbow strap. This strap wraps around the forearm below the elbow and helps keep the forearm muscles from pulling on the painful epicondyle. Anatomy The nerve runs just inside the tip of the elbow (where your funny bone is) lying in a groove called the cubital canal and covered by the arcuate ligament. Most cases of compression occur at the level of this ligament, but can also occur between the two heads of flexor carpi ulnaris muscle just below the elbow joint. Causes Direct blow to the elbow. Fractures of the elbow joint. Repetitive injuries like flexing the elbow (overuse) or leaning on it. Arthritis leading to joint deformity (rheumatoid). Clinical Findings Pain and tingling in the elbow and down the inside of the forearm to the little finger and half the ring finger (ulnar nerve territory). Clinical numbness on sensory testing. Feeling the ulnar nerve in the groove or tapping it (positive Tinel's sign), may reproduce symptoms down the forearm and into the little finger. Clumsiness of the hand due to weakness of the muscles supplied by the ulnar nerve. Clinical weakness on testing. Investigations EMG may help to differentiate between ulnar neuritis and other causes of C8 and T1 nerve irritation (cervical disc lesion, thoracic outlet syndrome), Treatment Avoid local repetitive trauma - consider using protective elbow pads. Avoid elbow flexion in the short term (not for chronic cases). Injections of LA / steroid may help either in the ulnar groove or between the two heads of flexor carpi ulnaris. Beware local nerve injury by the needle. Surgery - moving the nerve out of the groove and into the front part of the elbow joint may help (Ulnar Transposition). It's important that you begin treatment as soon as you feel the pain in your forearm. In most cases, forearm tendonitis can be cured without the need to see a doctor. You should apply R.I.C.E. treatment as soon as possible. R.I.C.E. treatment is the following: R est - rest the forearm. I ce - apply ice to the forearm for 20 minutes at a time. C ompression - apply light pressure to the forearm. E levation - elevating the forarm will help reduce pain. Median Neuritis Anatomy The median nerve crosses in front of the lower humerus (arm bone) to the front of the elbow joint, and then passes between the two heads of pronator teres to reach the forearm. Some people have an anatomical abnormality at the elbow consisting of a spur called the Supracondylar Process, which forms a tunnel at the inside edge of the humerus bone covered by the Ligament of Struthers. The median nerve can be compressed in this tunnel. In others the nerve is compressed between the two heads of pronator teres muscle below the level of the elbow joint. Clinical Findings Sensory symptoms involve the outer three and a half fingers. Clinical numbness on testing. Weakness in the hand and forearm depends upon which level the compression occurs at involving forearm pronation, wrist flexion, and opposition of the thumb. If pronator teres is the problem, then the symptoms will be aggravated by pronation of the forearm (elbow straight, palm down). Investigations EMG, X-rays and MRI scanning are the investigations of choice. Surgical decompression may be helpful. Anatomy The radial nerve at the elbow divides into two branches The sensory (superficial) branch supplies the outer forearm, base of the thumb, and back of the hand. The motor (deep) branch supplies the extensor muscles of the forearm, and is often known as the posterior interosseus nerve. It pierces the supinator muscle before entering the forearm. Clinical Findings Compression of the superficial branch causes pain and sensory symptoms in the forearm down to the base of the thumb. Numbness on clinical testing. The deep branch can be injured by direct blows to the forearm, and be compressed by an acutely inflamed arthritic elbow joint, causing pain and weakness of the wrist and forearm. Wasting of the extensor forearm muscles may be found in long standing cases, causing weakness of wrist and finger extension. Supinator Syndrome occurs when the radial nerve is compressed by the supinator muscle during repeated pronation/supination movements of the forearm.