TROMBONES Introduction Before I begin with my personal experiences with the Trombone, let's review a quick history and think about the mechanical composition of this much-loved and ancient instrument. The Trombone Family The trombone of today comes generally in five ranges: soprano, alto, tenor, bass and contrabass. Special order instruments, such as the piccolo and the sopranino trombone are known, although their use is generally relegated to trombone bands. The soprano trombone is sometimes referred to as a slide trumpet, although there are internal differences between the two instruments that justify this. Until recently, many people believed that the soprano trombone was a historic instrument, but it has recently come to light that this is not the case at all.

Brief History The trombone evolved from basic trumpets when the ancient Roman Empire art of bending tubing was rediscovered in the 15th century. Until the early 18th century the instrument was actually called a sackbut. The trombone (German: Posaune , Spanish: trombón ) is a musical instrument of the brass music instrument family. Like all brass instruments sound is produced when the player's vibrating lips ( embouchure ) cause the air column inside the instrument to vibrate.

Nearly all trombones have a telescopic slide mechanism that varies the length of the instrument to change the pitch. Instead of a slide, the valve trombone has three valves like those on a trumpet though. The word trombone derives from Italian tromba (trumpet) and - one (a suffix meaning "large"), so the name means "large trumpet". The trombone has a predominantly cylindrical bore like its valved counterpart the baritone horn, but in contrast to its conically valved counterparts the euphonium and the orchestral horn. The most frequently encountered trombones are the tenor trombone and the bass trombone , while the E-Flat alto trombone has become less common owing to tenor-technique extending the upper range of other instruments. The most common variant, the tenor, is pitched in B-Flat, an octave below the B_Flat trumpet and an octave above the B-Flat tuba. Trombone music (along with music for the euphonium and tuba) is typically written in concert pitch, although exceptions do occur - notably in some brass band music where the tenor trombone is presented as a B-Flat transposing instrument. A person who plays the trombone is called a trombonist (or trombone playe)r in Italian.

In America, they might be called a master of the trombone art. My Personal Experience of the Trombone It was only when my youngest boy Shane came to me all excited one evening carrying on about how he loved Trombones, and wanted to learn to play his own at the highest level, that I began to wonder if this wasn't just another passing fad. Then Shane insisted that I sit in on the next school orchestral practice session over the weekend, so that I could check his enthusiasm levels out for myself.

What I was to encounter was the confirmation that this time it really was for real - at least Shane was attending regular lessons, albeit using a somewhat dented and sad-looking old Trombone loaned from the music master! True, the quality of the music sounding forth from that budding-orchestra was somewhat distorted, but, with the average age of the musicians set to around 12 years old, what else was I to expect? After waiting a respectable time to be quite sure we were all singing from the same sheet music, I finally decided to go out and look to see what was on offer from the world of the Trombone. Should I buy new, or start with second hand?

Was there a great deal of difference between the options on offer, and what sort of money would I be forking out? Questions aplenty, but a little background research soon had us pointing in the right direction. Here then is the story of Shane's new hobby, and how we went about setting him up for the big time. In The Final Analysi s Say what you like, but I have really enjoyed this time with young Shane.

It's fair too to say that I have learned as much as anybody when it comes to the Trombone. This instrument has become an invaluable member of the orchestra, and formal music would not be the same without it. Thank you Shane, for without your interest there would not have been a story about the Trombone - well done my son, and as a reward I'm buying myself the Eterna II Tenor Trombone so I can join you in the odd tune . You guessed right, I'm joining up too! One thing though - and please don't tell Shane - I'm a fully-fledged Trombone player with years of past experience. My son obviously doesn't know this, but I had to let him think this thing through for himself. When he finds out that I'm one of the leading Trombone players in the country I'm going to have some explaining to do, for sure!

Now, where's my Eterna? The fist duet I'm planning on playing with my son Shane is "Seventy-Six Trombones" that was the signature song from the musical play "The Music Man" which was written by Meredith Willson in 1957. Let's play it out Shane while we work the slides together, like the pro's we are and are about to become. Seventy-six trombones led the big parade With a hundred and ten cornets close at hand.

They were followed by rows and rows of the finest virtuosos The cream of every famous band. Seventy-six trombones caught the morning sun With a hundred and ten cornets right behind There were more than a thousand reeds Springing up like weeds There were horns of every shape and kind . There were copper bottom tympani in horse platoons Thundering, thundering all along the way. Double bell euphonium's and big bassoons, Each bassoon having it's big, fat say! There were fifty mounted cannon in the battery Thundering, thundering louder than before Clarinets of every size And trumpeters who'd improvise A full octave higher than the score!