Modern communications satellites make use of a a variety of orbits which include geostationary orbits, Molniya orbits, and low polar and non-polar Earth orbits. The communications satellites provide microwave radio relay technology which is complementary to technology provided by submarine communication cables. These satellites are also used for mobile applications like communications to ships, planes, vehicles and hand-held terminals. These are also used for TV and radio broadcasting. Geostationary Satellites - The geostationary orbit is used for communications applications. A satellite placed in a geostationary orbit appears to be in its fixed position to an observer on earth. A geostationary satellite completed one revolution around the earth at a constant speed which is once per day over the equator. Ground based antennas can easily be directed towards a geostationary satellite and these antennas can operate effectively without the need for any expensive equipment to track the motion of the satellite. If an application that requires a large number of ground antennas as in case of direct TV distribution, the savings in ground equipment justifies the extra cost as well as on-board complexity of lifting a satellite into a relatively high geostationary orbit. Low Earth Orbiting Satellites - A Low Earth Orbit or LEO is a circular orbit that is about 400 km above the earth's surface and it has a period of about 90 minutes. In other words the time taken by a satellite placed in this orbit to revolve around the earth is 90 minutes. Due to their low altitude, these satellites can only be seen from within a radius of about 1000 kilometers from a sub-satellite point. In addition to this, the satellites revolving in low earth orbit change their relative position with respect to the ground very quickly. So, even for the purpose of local applications, a large number of satellites are required for uninterrupted connectivity. LEO satellites are less expensive to position in their orbit as compared to the geostationary satellites and due to their closer proximity to the ground, these satellites require lower signal strength as the signal strength falls off as the square of the distance from its source. So, this results in a is a trade off between the number of satellites and their cost. Apart from this, there are a number of differences in the on-board as well as ground equipment required to support the two kinds of missions. A group of satellites that works in concert is called a satellite constellation. Two such constellations that were meant to provide satellite phone services, mainly to remote areas, were the "Global Star" and "Iridium". Molniya Satellites - As geostationary satellites are constrained to operate only above the equator, they are not always suitable for providing services at higher latitudes because at higher latitudes, a geostationary satellite appears low on the horizon, thus affecting connectivity and causing multipathing which is the interference caused by signals that reflect off the ground. The first satellite of the Molniya series was launched on April 23, 1965. It was used for experimental transmission of TV signal starting from Moscow uplink station to downlink stations, which were located in Siberia, Norilsk, Khabarovsk, Vladivostok and Magadan. Molniya orbits are an appealing alternative in such cases. Such an orbit is highly inclined and it guarantees good elevation over selected positions for the northern portion of the orbit. Molniya satellites are generally used for telephony and TV services over Russia. These satellites have another application of being used for mobile radio systems even at lower latitudes because cars travelling through urban areas need a proper access to satellites at high elevation to secure good connectivity which may be in the presence of tall buildings. The SORCE or Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment is a satellite mission sponsored by NASA and provides measurements of incoming X-rays, ultraviolet radiations, visible light, near-infrared radiations and total solar radiations. The measurements which are provided by SORCE address long-term climatic changes, enhanced climatic predictions, atmospheric ozone and UV-B radiations. Such measurements are critical for the study of the Sun and its effect on the Earth and also its influence on mankind.The SORCE spacecraft was launched on January 25, 2003 and it was launched into a 645 km, 40 degree orbit. It is being operated by the LASP or Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics at the University of Colorado, USA. SORCE can measure the Sun's output by using of state-of-the-art spectrometers, radiometers, detectors, photodiodes and bolometers which have been specially engineered into the instruments mounted on the satellite observatory. Spectral measurements made with the help of SORCE identify the irradiance of the Sun. Data obtained from the SORCE experiment can be used for modelling the Sun's output and for explaining and predicting the effect of the Sun's radiations on Earth's climate. It needs to be mentioned that military communications are the battlefield or combat communications, that include intercommunication with a higher command or the country's government. The present-day militaries conduct intense and complicated communicating activities on a day to day basis, by making use of modern high-tech telecommunications and computing methods. A very small part of these activities are immediately related to the combat actions. It's because of this reason that some prefer to make use of the term called"military communications". Countries With Satellite Launch Capability The list includes those countries which have an independent capability to place satellites in their orbit and this also includes the production of the necessary launch vehicle. It's worth mentioning that there are many more countries which have the capability to design and build satellites which does not require much scientific, economic, and industrial capacity but these countries are unable to launch them. These countries rely on foreign launch services. The list given here does not include those numerous countries but it includes only those countries which are capable of launching their satellites indigenously, and the the list also includes the date on which this capability was first demonstrated. Iraq and North Korea and have claimed orbital launches but these claims are unconfirmed. As of 2006, there are only eight countries, which have independently launched satellites into their orbit on their own and at the same time those satellites were indigenously developed launch vehicles. These countries are USSR , USA , France , China , Japan , UK , India and Israel . The launch capabilities of UK and France now fall under the European Union and at the same time the launch capabilities of the Soviet Union fall under Russia. As a result, the total number of political entities with active satellite launch capabilities have been reduced to seven. There are six 'major' space powers and these are USA , Russia , China , India EU and Japan. Apart from these major powers, there is one 'minor' space power which is Israel . There are many other countries like S outh Korea , Iran, Brazil and Pakistan which are are in their early stages of developing their own launch capabilities, and as a result, these countries hope to become 'minor' space powers.