Bellevue (meaning beautiful town in French) is a thriving and expanding city in King County, Washington and currently covers an area of around 33.9 square miles. In 2000 the population was 109,569. The population of Bellevue grows fast and in 2006 was an estimated 118,186. Those living in Bellevue are referred to as Bellevueites. Bellevue is currently the second largest city center in Washington state with over 35,000 employees and 5,000 residents. Bellevue is the 15th wealthiest community in the state of Washington and was recently named the number one places to live and launch a business by CNNMoney. Bellevue is one of the largest cities in the state.It has several sky scraper buildings and a growing business community. Bellevue was rated one of the twenty five safest cities in America based on the per-capita incidence of violent crime. There is very little unemployment in Bellevue. In 2006 it was estimated that there were a total of 130,000 jobs Bellevue, that is more jobs than there are people in the city. This increase is jobs has happened mainly over the last 35 years. 35 years ago their were only around 20,000 jobs and the city was mainly residential. Bellevue lies between Lake Washington Lake Sammamish . Much of Bellevue is drained by the Kelsey Creek watershed, whose source is in the Larsen and Phantom Lake greenbelt and whose outlet is near where Interstate 90 meets the east shore or Lake Washington. Bellevue is bordered by Kirkland to the north and Redmond in the northeast along the Overlake and Crossroads neighborhoods . Across the East Channel Bridge , I-90 connects Bellevue to Mercer Island to the southwest and Issaquah is to the east. The city is bordered to the west by the suburbs of Medina , Clyde Hill , Hunts Point and Yarrow Point . South of I-90 the Eastgate neighborhood continues up Cougar Mountain . To the west of Cougar Mountain, Bellevue includes Coal Creek and Factoria . The city is bisected by Interstate 405 running north-south, and the southern portion is crossed from west to east by Interstate 90. The State Route 520 freeway roughly delineates the upper reaches of the city. The south end of Bellevue is bordered by the city of Renton, and to the southeast, the city of Newcastle. On a clear day in Bellevue you can see the Olympic Mountains and Cascade Mountains from the hills and some of the skyscraper buildings. Bellevue is home to the headquarters of many small and large businesses including many technology companies. Bellevue is close to Redmond, home of Microsoft, and with direct highway access to Seattle via Interstate 90 and State Route 520 technological businesses thrive in this area. There are several busy commercial districts, and three major shopping centers. Crossroads Mall, Factoria Mall and the Overlake Shopping District. Crossroads Bellevue has forty acres of stores. These include shoes and fashion, home furnishings, books and music, art and craft supplies, shoes and unique fashions. There is always something going on to enjoy such as free live music, public art and cultural events. There are restaurants offering tasty international dishes. There is also a movie theater, a giant chess set, a restored carousel, and free wifi too. Factoria Mall has more than sixty stores and services and offers convenience with a neighborhood feel. Bellevue Square, or "Bel Square" is often thought of as one of the best malls in the country. There are more than two hundred stores and some top restaurants. At Bellevue Square you'll find Macy's and Tiffany & Co, Nordstrom, Crate and Barrel along with lots of unique shops that you won't find anywhere else. Restaurants include P.F. Chang's China Bistro, Red Robin, Cheesecake Factory, and Ruth's Chris Steak House. At Bellevue Square there are also concierge services, valet parking, a local shuttle bus, and a children's play area. The Bellevue Galleria offers retail and restaurants in the heart of Bellevue. There is a movie theater on the top floor, a spa & salon and several restaurants. There is a large plaza that plays host to events all year round. Approximately two-thirds of the firms doing business in Bellevue are in the services and retail trade. Belle vue also has a very strong employment base in new economy industries such as engineering and IT. The percentage share of jobs in Bellevue in these growing and well-paying industries is significantly higher than in the region as a whole and many companies choose to have their headquarte rs in Bellevue. In 2005, 13 of the states 100 largest public companies and nine of the states largest private companies had their headquarters in the city. William Meydenbauer founded Bellevue in 1869 and it was incorporated officially in 1953. Before the Lake Washington Floating Bridge opened in 1940, Bellevue was a quiet farming area.With the opening of the bridge, access to Seattle was improved and there was an influx of people living in the peace and tranquility of Bellevue and travelling to Seattle to work. In 1963 another bridge was built, the Evergreen Point Floating Bridge and growth continued at a fast rate . Bellevue Square opened in 1946 and is now one of the largest shopping centers in the area. The square was first expanded in the 1980's and again in more recent years an expansion called "The Lodge" along Bellevue Way and the new One Lincoln Tower were added. Bellevue has a Council-Manager government with seven electred non-partisan council members who serve four-year terms. The City Council chooses their Mayor from among the members. The mayor serves as council chair but has no veto power. It's mainly a ceremonial role and is a part time position. The main running of city falls to the City Manager who is chosen with more care than the mayor as more work is required of them. Bellevue is served by a Burlington Northern branch line railroad known as the Woodinville Subdivision This includes the historic Wilburton Trestle, a local freight line that has been the subject of a controversial plan by King County to remove the rails and replace them with a bicycle trail. As a result of this, a movement has arisen to save the railroad and begin a rail transit service on it as an alternative to the congested I-405 freeway, which runs alongside it. Bellevue is the main Eastside hub for the King County Metro, the local transit authority and Sound Transit, the regional transit system. The Bellevue Transit Center, serves both the Metro and the Sound buses, and is located in the center of the downtown business district. The Bellevue Transit Center is connected to Interstate 405 by NE 6th St. and a direct-access Texas T HOV ramp. Local buses serve Kirkland, Issaquah, Renton, Redmond and the University District while regional buses can take you to several cities including Bothell, Everett, Seattle, Auburn, Renton, Lynnwood, Kent, Federal Way. There is a high level of education in Bellevue. In 2000, 54% of Bellevue residents over the age of 25 were educated to a minimum of Bachelor degree level. In the same year statistic showed that 53% percent of the workforce were employed in managerial and professional occupations. Bellevue has several educational establishments, these include City University and Bellevue Community College (BCC) . Bellevue Community College is the largest Washington and the third largest establishment of higher education in the state. There are four main public high schools in the area. Bellevue High School , Newport High School , Sammamish High School and Interlake High School , and two alternative high schools, Robinswood High School and International School. At elementary level, Bellevue has the only Waldorf Education school in Eastside at Three Cedars School, and there are also several Montessori schools. 