In terms of revenue generated, PVC is one of the most valuable products of the chemical industry . All over the world, more than 50% of PVC manufactured is being used for construction. As a building material, it is cheap, durable, and at the same time it is also easy to assemble. Quite recently, PVC has replaced traditional building materials like wood , concrete and clay in many fields. T he PVC world market has grown at an average rate of approximately 5% during the last few years and its consumption may reach a volume of 40 milion tons by 2016.

Polyvinyl chloride or PVC is the world's most versatile plastic which is used to make everything from simple food wrap to auto body parts to water pipes. PVC is made up of two simple building blocks. It consists of 60% chlorine, derived from common salt and 40% ethylene that is derived from crude oil. The resulting compound, called ethylene dichloride, is converted at high temperatures to vinyl chloride monomer or VCM gas.

Through the chemical reaction which is known as polymerization, VCM becomes a chemically stable, polyvinyl chloride resin. PVC resin is then combined with a wide range of other materials like plasticisers, stabilisers, lubricants and colorants for producing rigid or flexible products. PVC is one of the largest-selling plastic and it is the most versatile one as it is used in hundreds of consumer as well as industrial products all over the world.

PVC has made a tremendous improvement in the field of plumbing. It can be used to replace cast iron and galvanized pipe in almost every situation. It is not only light weight and easy to work with, but at the same time, it is also available in many different sizes. PVC fittings as well as the related materials are easily available at all plumbing and hardware stores. This article discusses PVC pipes, fittings, its uses and installation.

Preparation of PVC Polyvinyl chloride or PVC is produced by polymerization of the monomer vinyl chloride. As 57% of its mass is chlorine , creating a given quantity of PVC requires less petroleum as compared to many other polymers. History Polyvinyl chloride was accidentally discovered on two different occasions during the 19th century.

It was first discovered in the year 1835 by Henri Victor Regnault and it was again discovered in the year 1872 by Eugen Baumann. On both these occasions, the polymer appeared in the form of white solid inside the flasks of vinyl chloride which had been left exposed to sunlight. During the early 20th century, a Russian chemist named Ivan Ostromislensky and Fritz Klatte from the German chemical company Griesheim-Elektron attempted to use polyvinyl chloride in commercial products, but the difficulties faced by them in processing the rigid and sometimes brittle polymer imposed a hindrance against their efforts. During the year 1926, Waldo Semon and the B.F. Goodrich Company developed a method for plasticization of PVC by blending it with different additives. The result of the efforts was much more flexible and an easily-processed material that quickly achieved a widespread commercial use.

PVC can be used under the ground or above the ground in buildings. It can be used outdoors in case the pipe contains stabilizers and UV inhibitors in order to shield against ultraviolet radiation and it is also painted with a water-based latex paint.

1. Electric wires PVC is used as an insulating material on electric wires and the plastic used for this purpose has to be plasticized. In case of a fire, PVC-coated wires result in the formation of HCl fumes and the chlorine serves the purpose of scavenging free radicals and acts as a the source of the material's fire retarder. While HCl fumes can pose a health hazard, HCl dissolves in moisture and breaks down onto surfaces, particularly in those areas where the air is cool. Quite frequently in those applications, where smoke can be a major hazard as in case of tunnels, PVC free low-smoke, zero-halogen or LSOH cable insulation is preferred.

2. Pipes PVC is also being widely used for the production of pipes. In water distribution market, PVC accounts for 66 percent of the market in US, and in case of sanitary sewer pipe applications, it accounts for 75 percent of share. Its light weight, low reactivity and high strength make it particularly suitable to this purpose.

In addition to this, PVC pipes can easily be fused together by using various solvent cements,thus creating permanent joints which are impervious to any kind of leakage. Despite PVC's innumerable advantages, in cases where ease of dis-assembly and very high strength are required, metal pipes are still being preferred. In the US and Canada, PVC pipes account for the largest majority of pipe materials being used in buried municipal applications for the purpose of drinking water distribution and waste water mains.

A detailed review of PVC pipes in North America is found in an article titled Thermoplastics at Work, which is a A Comprehensive Review of Municipal PVC Piping Products.

PVC piping system components can easily be manufactured in a wide variety of colors. As a result, identification of application is quite easy. A common color scheme that is generally used is: White color is used for for DWV (Drain - Waste - Vent) and some of the low pressure applications. White, blue, and dark gray colors are used for cold water piping. Green color is used for sewer service. Dark gray color is used for the purpose of industrial pressure applications. It must be mentioned that this color scheme is not a universal one. Moreover, this color scheme has an exception.

It must be noted that the white PVC pipe is dual rated for the purpose of DWV and pressure applications. Precaution: PVC piping systems should not be used to store or convey compressed air or any other gases. At the same time, PVC piping systems should not even be tested with compressed air or any other gases for the purpose of safety. Marking on PVC Pipes: As printing on PVC pipes is quite simple, markings are always very easy to identify. According to the ASTM standards, PVC pipes should be labeled in terms of the manufacturer's name and/or trademark, the standard to which the pipe conforms, pipe size, material designation, DWV, if used for drainage, pressure rating if used for pressure, SDR number and in case the pipe is used for potable water, then in that case, a laboratory seal or a mark attesting to the suitability for potable water. Installation of PVC Piping Systems Installation of PVC piping systems is quite easy. Contractors love to use this lightweight piping material.

Its light weight makes it very easy for the plumber to handle. When doing any kind of plumbing replacement in a building, it's worth giving PVC pipe a try. PVC can be cut quite easily with the help of a hacksaw, but abrasive disks are also made for miter saws and these work better to get a straight edge. It should always be remembered that a joint that is skewed due to a pipe not being cut straight may throw off the entire pipeline. Measure twice, and cut once.

After cutting, all shavings should be cleaned out of the pipe and the inside edges should be burred. When the pipe is cut to its proper length, lay it out on the floor with fittings in their place to make sure that the length is correct. If it is of the required length, then proceed to installation.