Worldwide, cervical cancer is the second most common malignancy in women and a major cause of morbidity and mortality.Many important advances have also taken place in the diagnosis and treatment of cervical cancer. The most important component in the management of cervical cancer will always be primary prevention. Sophisticated new tests for the detection of HPV that hold great promise for improved screening abnormal screening for cervical cancer precursors and invasive cancer and for the triage of abnormal cervical cytology also have been developed. Understanding the immunology of HPV has allowed the development of new and more effective treatment modalities of HPV infection and the preliminary development of primary prevention modalities, including HPV vaccines. There are few things which you can do to prevent cervical cancer and pre-cancers. Avoid beingexposed to HPV: Most of the cervical pre-cancers can be prevented by avoiding exposure to HPV. There are certain types of sexual behavior which increase the risk of a woman of getting HPV infection such as: Started having sex at an early age Having many sexual partners Having a partner who is having many sexual partners Having sex with uncircumcised males Delay sex: Delaying the age of starting sex can be helpful in avoiding HPV infection. It also helps to limit your number of sexual partnersand to avoid having sex with someone who has had many other sexualpartners. Many people may have HPV for years without any symptoms. They may keep it passing to many people unknowingly. Use condoms: Use of condoms may be protective against HPV infection. One study reported that correct use of condoms may lower the HPVinfection rate by almost 70% - if it is used with each and every sexual act. Condoms cannot be completely protective as they don't cover all the HPV-infected areas of body such as skin of the genital or anal area. Still, condoms provide some protection against HPV, and they also protect against HIV and some other sexually transmitted diseases. Avoid smoking: Avoiding smoking is an important way of reducing the risk of cervical pre-cancer and cancer. Get vaccinated: Vaccines have been developed which can protect women from HPV infections. Till now, a vaccine which protects against HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18 (Gardasil®) and another vaccinne which protects against types 16 and 18 (Cervarix®) have been studied. Gardasil® has been approved by the FDA. A series of 3 injections over a 6-month period needs to be given. The second injection is given 2 months after the first one, and the third is given 4 months after the second. The common side effects are short-term redness, swelling, and soreness at the injection site. Clinical trials have shown that Gardasil can prevent genital warts caused by HPV types 6 and 11 and also prevent pre-cancers and cancers of the cervix caused by HPV types 16and 18. The vaccine can only prevent HPV infection and cannot be used for treating already existing HPV infection. To be most effective, the HPV vaccine should be given before aperson starts having sex. The Federal Advisory Committee onImmunization Practices (ACIP) has recommended that the vaccine be givenroutinely to females aged 11 to 12. It can be given to younger females(as young as age 9) at the discretion of doctors. ACIP also recommendedwomen ages 13 to 26 who have not yet been vaccinated get "catch-up"vaccinations. The American Cancer Society also recommends that the vaccinebe routinely given to females aged 11 to 12 and as early as age 9 yearsat the discretion of doctors. The Society also agrees that"catch-up" vaccinations should be given to femalesaged 13 to 18. The independent panel making the Society recommendationsfound that there was not enough proof of benefit to recommend catch-upvaccination for every woman aged 19 to 26 years. As a result, the American Cancer Society recommends that women aged 19 to 26 talk withtheir health care provider about the risk of previous HPV exposure and potential benefit from vaccination before deciding to get vaccinated.Research is now being done on using Gardasil in older women and inmales. The American Cancer Society guideline focuses on Gardasil at this time. As new information on Cervarix®,Gardasil®,and other new products becomes available, these guidelines will be updated. Gardasil is expensive - the vaccine series costs around $360 (not including any doctor's fee or the cost of giving theinjections). It should be covered by most medical insurance plans (if given according to ACIP guidelines). It should also be covered bygovernment programs that pay for vaccinations in children under 18.Because this vaccine costs so much, you may want to check your coveragewith your insurance company first. It is important to realize that the vaccine doesn't protect against all cancer-causing types of HPV, so routine Pap tests are still necessary. One other benefit of the vaccine is that it protects against the 2 viruses that cause 90% of genital warts. Human Papilloma virus infection Infection with Human papilloma virus is the most important risk factor for cervical cancer. Human Papillomavirus (HPV) is a small DNA virus with a genome of approximately 8,000 base pairs. Of more than 100 types of HPVs described; approximately 40 HPV types can be found in the cervico-vaginal area. Not all types have been implicated as risk factor in the development of cervical carcinoma cancer in infected women (high-risk). HPV 16 and HPV 18 together account for approximately two thirds of observed cervical cancer cases. The biochemical activities of two primary oncoproteins encoded by HPV genomes E6 and E7 are thought to mediate the progress of HPV infections into malignancies. Some other oncoproteins, such as E4 and E5, are thought to complement their activity. E6 and E7 from high-risk types manipulate cell cycle regulators, induce chromosomal abnormalities, and block apoptosis. The targets of HPV are the basal cells in the stratified squamous epithelium, the metaplastic cells in the stratified squamous epithelium and metaplastic cells at the squamocolumnar junction of the cervix. In addition, HPV may also infect the glandular epithelium of the endocervix, resulting in glandular neoplasms, such as adenocarcinoma in situ or invasive adenocarcinoma. There are several steps that might occur during development of initial infection into cancer. These include overcoming host immune resistance, possible integration of HPV DNA into the host genome, and accumulation of additional mutations within the infected host cell. The preliminary step for development of advanced neoplasia is persistence of HPV infection within the host epithelial. Invader HPV Test as a New Screening Assay HPV typing and colposcopy are ancillary tests for patients with an abnormal cervical cytology, while cervical biopsy for the demonstration of CIN3 remains the only diagnostic test for cervical neoplasia. Colposcopy is invasive and expensive and can miss one-third of CIN3 lesions. Although HPV has been implicated in etiology of cervical cancer, all types of HPV do not have same degree of carcinogenecity. In the etiology of cervical cancer fifteen oncogenic or high-risk (HR) strains of HPV have been implicated. Of these HR HPV types, HPV type 16 (HPV 16) and HPV 18 are etiologically associated with CIN3 and invasive cervical carcinomas (CIN lesions of grade 3 or higher) in 60% and 10 to 20% of specimens, respectively (17). The report of ASCUS LSIL Triage Study Group showed that the 2-year cumulative absolute risk for CIN lesions of grade 3 or higher is 32.5% for HPV 16-positive ASCUS specimens, which raises a clinical urgency. Identifying HPV 16 and 18 may play an important role in the risk stratification of patients with ASCUS for further monitoring and heightened follow-up as the persistence of HPV infection is frequently associated with these two strains. Clinically, the Inv2 test detects 14 oncogenic HPV types and segregates the viruses into three groups according to the results obtained with separate probe sets, thus allowing the selection of women for whom further subtyping is needed. In this study, cervical samples were submitted in SurePath ethanol-based transport medium, with DNA extractions for Inv2 testing obtained by semiautomated methods. SurePath medium has been increasingly popular as a liquid fixative for gynecologic cytology; moreover, screening for HPV from a liquid fixative is rapidly growing as an important testing modality for cancer prevention. For the Inv2 assay, H2be serves as an internal control and ensures that informative DNA is extracted from the specimen. In this study, the extractions for the Inv2 assay were "clean"; that is, the semiautomated extraction resulted in a low level of extraneous background DNA and provided quality specimen DNA. Approximately 50% of ASCUS specimens demonstrate HR HPV infections (7). Algorithmically, the need for clinical follow-up for ASCUS is considerably intensified by a positive screen for HR HPV. Most contemporary HPV tests that indicate positive results for HPV do not yet specifically identify HPV 16 and 18, nor do they indicate the level of inherent patient risk when the assay results are positive. As one approach to the recently recognized need for a level of specificity for HPV 16 and 18 in cervical cytology specimens, we examined a new and yet undescribed HPV screening assay, the second-generation Invader HPV (Inv2) assay (Third Wave Technologies, Inc., Madison, WI). The Inv2 assay screens for HPV DNA and subgroups the HR HPV types with three separate HR HPV-specific probe sets. The Inv2 assay is available as analyte-specific reagents (ASRs) and provides a potentially semiautomated, high-throughput system for the detection of 14 HR HPV types. According to the manufacturer of the Inv2 assay ASRs, the Inv2 assay is similar to the first-generation Invader HPV HR assay but with the addition of a probe for HR HPV 66. The Inv2 assay HR HPV-specific probe sets include A5/A6 (HPV 51, 56, and 66), A7 (HPV 18, 39, 45, 59, and 68), and A9 (HPV 16, 31, 33, 35, 52, and 58). Positivity for probes A9 and A7 is suggestive of the presence of HPV 16 and 18, respectively. The Inv2 assay features an internal positive control through the detection of the human histone-2, or H2be, gene, ensuring the quality of the DNA and informative results for specimens with negative assay results. The specificity of assays for HPV subtypes is now a major concern, namely, because patients may be subjected to unnecessary stress and procedures secondary to false-positive results for HR types. The HC2 HPV screening assay detects at least 15 HPV genotypes not included in its HR probe set. It may be argued that it is important to detect HPV with sensitivity, irrespective of specificity; however, this may not attend to the caveats of risk and the economic cost associated with a false-positive test result. Specificity for HR HPV and the associated clinical implications-the need for close follow-up, including colposcopy-are relevant issues which suggest that a high sensitivity and a high specificity are paramount to clinical acumen. The Inv2 and HC2 tests appear to demonstrate similar sensitivities, although the Inv2 test may offer an improvement in specificity. According to the results from this study, the Inv2 test offers a reliable means of grouping of HR HPV types, which offers potential advantage in triaging of patients for follow-up for possible HPV 16 and 18 infections. In this study, the extraction phase for Inv2 testing for high throughput was semiautomated. Otherwise, the LA-PCR allows the specific recognition of individual types within both low-risk and HR HPV groups, although the test remains unavailable for clinical use at this time. In its present format, the application of PCR-LA would be problematic (because of strip hybridization) for high throughput. After characterizing the Inv2 assay, it can be stated that the assay appears to be simple to perform, can be used with the SurePath fixative, DNA extraction can be done by semiautomated method, and shows a good sensitivity and a good specificity for ASCUS cytology cases. For routine surveillance for HPV, the Inv2 test appears to be potentially useful as a first-line test for screening for HPV. The Inv2 test demonstrates few false-positive results without compromising the sensitivity of detection of critical HPV types, including HPV 16 and 18. Patients positive by the Inv2 test with the A9 and/or A7 probe set may warrant further close follow-up and/or testing for possible HPV 16 and 18 infection. Human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccines: A new quadrivalent vaccine, Gardasil, protects against four HPV types (6, 11, 16, 18), which are responsible for 70% of cervical cancers and 90% of genital warts. This prophylactic vaccine is made from non-infectious HPV-like particles (or virus-like particles, VLP); it does not contain thimerosal or mercury. The vaccine is administered through a series of three intramuscular injections over a six-month period (at 0, 2, and 6 months). On June 8, 2006 this vaccine was licensed by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), becoming the first licensed vaccine developed to prevent cervical cancer and other diseases in females caused by genital HPV infection. On June 29, 2006 the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) voted to recommend use of the quadrivalent vaccine in females, ages 9 to 26 years of age. Ideally, the vaccine should be administered before onset of sexual activity. However, females who are sexually active also may benefit from vaccination. Females who already have been infected with one or more HPV type would only get protection from the vaccine type(s) they have not acquired. Clinical trials have demonstrated 100% efficacy in preventing cervical pre-cancers caused by the targeted HPV types and nearly 100% efficacy in preventing vulvar and vaginal pre-cancers and genital warts caused by the targeted HPV types among women ages 16 to 26 years, who were nae to the specific HPV vaccine types. Data do not indicate that the vaccine has any therapeutic effect of HPV infection or HPV-associated disease, including existing Pap test abnormalities or genital warts. While it is possible that vaccination of males may offer direct health benefits to males and indirect health benefits to females, there are currently no efficacy data available to support use of HPV vaccine in males. Efficacy studies in males are ongoing.