Or how about the ultimate package? If you have a spare £100,000 to spend on a holiday, then you can have the ultimate package that includes t wo night stay in The Ritz-Carlton's 2,400 square-foot Presidential Suite; Limousine transportation from McCarran International Airport to a helipad where you and your partner willtravel helicopter to Lake Las Vegas with champagne, then to be serenaded by a gondolier while riding a gondola from the Lake Las Vegas helicopter landing to The Ritz-Carlton's shore; Cristal Champagne and gourmet picnic basket upon arrival; d inner for the first night to include private in-room dinner to be prepared by a dedicated chef and waiting staff; d inner for the second night to include private champagne-tasting dinner aboard Lake Las Vegas' yacht, and a string-trio to play for you throughout the evening with rose petals strewn throughout yacht; 14 dozen roses; the use of luxury car of choice during your stay; a $50,000 shopping spree at Neiman Marcus , complete with round-trip limousine service; $5,000 line of credit at the MonteLago Casino ; a p rivate fantasy butler; a b utler-drawn Cristal champagne bath; a Prada Beauty couples body treatment in your room; p ersonalized bath robes; m onogrammed pillow cases; breakfast in bed every day of your holiday; a n ightly rose petal turndown; a leaving present of The Ritz-Carlton bedding and linens and a bottle of Cristal Champagne; l imousine service from The Ritz-Carlton to McCarran International Airport; Resort fee; v alet parking; and transportation to and from airport in originating city. itting and car rental arrangements, complimentary indoor self-parking or valet service . There is a business center in the hotel and a concierge desk. There is daily housekeeping of your room too. The hotel has a gift shop, ice and vending machines. There are non-smoking rooms available, safe deposit boxes, valet laundry service and video cassette player/recorder rental. In total there is 33,000ft² of indoor meeting space, as well as space for outdoor events and a selection of scenic lakefront and garden settings. Perfect for any business conference, meeting, retreat, wedding or other social gatherings. The hotel also offers the services of a professional conference services manager, catering sales manager and catering services manager, who will work with each meeting planner to customise your perfect function for your exact needs. The Ritz-Carlton Grand Ballroom is 11,813ft² and has high vaulted ceilings, crystal chandeliers, pin-spot lighting capabilities and plenty of pre-function space. The room has stunning garden views and an expansive outdoor terrace which is easily accessible. The room can be divided into four with soundproof walls, data and voice lines, light panel controls and private sound systems in each section. The MonteLago Ballroom is 4,700ft². This ballroom also has crystal chandeliers, pin-spot lighting capabilities and access to the resort's garden. This room can be divided into two smaller ballrooms with all the features of the Grand Ballroom. The Estate and Village Boardrooms have wood panelling, natural lighting, data and voice lines, light panel controls and private sound systems, and overstuffed executive chairs and both can accommodate up to 50 people. There are also eight function rooms with open floor plans, luxurious carpeting, silk wall coverings, data and voice lines, light panel controls and private sound systems and they can accommodate from 22 to 100 guests. As well as this there is also a very versatile 7,423ft² pre-function area that has easy terrace access and additional space to events held in the Ritz-Carlton Grand Ballroom. 