Rheem Point-Of-Use Electric Residential Water Heater Rheem is the leader in sales of water heaters for both residential as well as commercial. One of their most popular series in water heaters is the Point-of-Use Electric Water Heater which was created with the small basement in mind. These units are compact and are perfect for basements with very little space. Rheem Point-Of-Use Electric Water Heater uses an energy efficient heating elements, this will save you money during the normally expensive winter months. The less energy you use the less the electric bill will be. A great standard feature that these models have is the Temperature and Pressure Relief Valve. Rheem has an Over Temperature Protector; this is a great safety feature to have. It will turn off the power as the temperatures exceed the normal settings. Plus, the Point-Of-Use Electric Water Heater has an automatic thermostat that will keep the water temperature in the heater at the temp you set it for, not what the factory thinks it should be set. This will also save you money, you won't have to keep turning up the thermostat to get the water temp you want it will already be set there. On the 2.5 gallon capacity tank, it has a corrosion and rust resistant " turn drain valve and the unit has a 240 volt application that will have a junction box included by the factory, this box will help make installation go much smoother. The 2.5 gallon Point-Of-Use Electric Water Heater can be a wall-mounted unit, to save you even more space. These features are only available in the 2.5-gallon tank. The Point-Of-Use Electric Water Heater from Rheem meets and exceeds the requirements from the National Appliance Energy Conservation Act or NAECA. There are 6 different sizes of the Point-Of-Use Electric Water Heater based on the gallon capacity of the tank. The six models range from a 2.5-gallon capacity tank to a 30-gallon capacity tank. The 2.5-gallon capacity tank uses a " NPT inlet and outlet with a relief valve connection of ". The 2.5-gallon tank is available with a 120 or a 240-volt with an AC single phase only. The 6 gallon tank through the 30 gallon model will use a " NPT, outlet, inlet and an anode rod. These models will also have a Temperature and Pressure valve connections of ". These models are not available with a 3-phase wiring and they all have a standard 120-volt AC with 2000 single watt element included. If you are looking to add a water heater to your boiler or a new construction, consider the Point-Of-Use Electric Water Heater, it is one of the best in a long line of great water heaters. US Craftsman 40 Gallon Self Cleaning Gas Water Heater US Craftsman has been serving the heating industry for many years. They have a superior inventory that houses only the best water heaters in the industry. One of their standout water heaters is the US Craftsman 40 Gallon Self Cleaning Gas Water Heater. This water heater offers a high quality material so the heater can last long. The 40 Gallon Self-Cleaning Gas Water Heater has a self powered microprocessor programmable control device. There is no electrical outlet needed because you can simply program your water heater from any place in your home. No more procrastination of going to the basement to adjust the water heater -- you can do it all with a simple touch of the controls. This will save you time as well as money. The unit comes with a self-diagnostic monitor with 8 important functions that will let you know when your water heater is having even the slightest problem. With this feature you will be able to get a technician before your problem become a bigger one. There are 3 selections for operation on your water heaters, choose the one that you believe can save you money on your gas bill as well as your electrical bill. The US Craftsman 40 Gallon Self Cleaning Gas Water Heater has also a Flame Guard Safety System with a Flammable Vapor Ignition. This means that the flame Guard System protects the water heater from gases that may escape into the water heater. The water heater is also Child Resistant at which there aren't any parts that your child can break or get hurt on. The water heater comes with a factory installed Temperature and Pus-craftsmanressure Gauge, which allows the water heater to run safely without any backup from the system. There is a Resettable Thermal Switch that has a flammable vapor incident trigger, which has a thermal safety switch that will turn off the gas supply in case of an emergency. The water heaters are insulated with a NON CFC Foam Insulation designed to help keep the water in the tank and keep the unit running efficiently. Adding to the efficiency of the water heater is the aluminized Steel Multi Port with a Low NOx Burner. The burner will put out lower emissions of gases that will work with the environment as well as save you money. The US Craftsman 40 Gallon Self Cleaning Gas Water Heater will get a Piezo Ignition with a Pilot Reset Button and a Pilot Light Window. The heater is compact; the measurements are 62″ in height and 18″ in diameters. It has a 40,000 Btu's per hour and it uses Natural Gas only. This water heater will heat water and space heating for a family of 4. The US Craftsman 40 Gallon Self Cleaning Gas Water Heater is equipped with their own Energy Smart System, this system is guaranteed to help you save money as well as get a perfectly running system. The water heaters are best used in residential homes and have a 12-year warranty. Top Seven "No Heat" Troubleshooting Tips Spending a few minutes on learning how to troubleshoot your heating unit can save you hundreds and sometimes thousands of dollars. Your heating system is the most valuable asset to you on those super cold days, but if you turn on your heat and nothing happens, you will have what we call in the heating industry a "no heat" situation. Having no heat can mean that for some reason your boiler, heat pump or furnace has had a mechanical or electrical failure. When your heat goes down sometimes its something as simply as pushing a reset button or it can be as difficult as shelling out a few hundred bucks to repair the heating unit. There are a few different types of heating systems and they include, steam heat, forced hot water heater, and also electric heat. It can also get a bit tricky since forced hot water heater can be powered by steam , oil, or even natural gas. Then you also have gravity systems as well. If you have no idea what type of heat you have and are not comfortable at all troubleshooting your home heating system, it may be best that you just call a certified or licensed heating professional to diagnose and possibly fix your heating problem. Problem: "I turned my thermostat all the way up but the heat won't come on" Solution: This is a very statement and could easily be many things. The first thing to do is determine what the source of fuel is for your heat. For example, if you had an oil fired heating unit, it could be something simple like you are out of fuel oil, or something more complex like a bad thermo-coupling . If you have a gas unit. The best thing to do is to make sure you have a fuel supply and then keep on reading the other no-heat solutions here. Problem: "I ran out of oil and just got more but my burner will not light" Solution: Most of the time when you run out of oil the safety on the burner will trip and you will have to hit the reset button to start the burner back up again. The reset button is located on the actual burner itself. Problem: "I have so much air in my pipes that I have no heat" Solution: If you have a lot of air in your heat loops or feed and return pipes you will have to bleed the air out of the lines manually. After you bleed the air out of the lines manually, make sure to see if your airtol and air expansion valves are OK. Problem : "I am getting a no-flow warning on my furnace and it won't run" Solution: Depending on what brand of heating furnace you have will depend on the exact phrase, for example some units might say "no-flo" , "low air flow" etc. This means you need to replace the filter element on your furnace. Problem: "I have not enough heat in some of my rooms, I have forced hot air" Solution: Air is just like anything else and will take the easiest path of resistance. What you will need to do is adjust all the heating registers in each room by opening or closing the fins, so that the flow of air is equal between all the rooms. Problem: "I am producing tons of steam but my radiators don't stay hot" Solution: This sounds like the steam traps are bad. When steam traps go bad the steam just goes in one side of the radiator and right out of the other. The steam traps job is to hold the steam in until it cools. If your steam traps are bad, you will not hold heat. Problem: "I hit the reset button on my burner over and over and it keeps tripping" Solution: Usually when the burner trips there is a problem big or small, sometimes just resetting the burner will make it start again, but if you experience the burner tripping after hitting the reset then there is a larger problem and a certified serviceman will have to work on the heating. 