GPS devices can give you turn by turn directions for reaching just about any destination. These devices are known for having thousands of 'points of interest'. For instance, if you're craving for coffee or you need to go to the closest bank or a nearby grocery store or post office, your GPS device can tell you simply with a touch of a button, the route of going there. Higher end models are quite advanced in technology, and as a matter of fact, some of them are even chiming each and every time you pass a church. You can find a number of options from high to low end. These have been priced for almost any kind of budget. Have you ever thought how a GPS device works? H ave you ever thought how can a little device that is smaller than a postcard capable of getting you to the nearby shopping mall, how can it alert you when you enter in a school zone, how can it keep you awake on road with customized messages? As a matter of fact, the capabilities of these devices are simply amazing! Many people think that GPS is synonymous with satellite navigation but this is a mistake. In fact, GPS is an example of location technology, and on the other hand, navigation is just the tip of the iceberg as far as potential consumer applications are concerned. Later on when all the electronic devices become aware of where they are, many new uses are going to emerge. The Navstar Global Positioning System is a constellation of orbiting satellites and it provides navigation data to military as well as civilian users through out the world. The system is being operated and controlled by the 50th Space Wing which is located at Schriever Air Force Base, Colo. Delta II expendable launch vehicle is used for launching the GPS satellites from Cape Canaveral Air Station, Fla. These satellites are launched into nearly 11,000-mile circular orbits. While the satellites are circling the earth, the systems can transmit signals on two L-band frequencies that are different from each other. The design life is 7.5 years. Timing is the key to GPS. The GPS satellites are time-synchronized with respect to each other by precise atomic clocks that are regularly calibrated by ground stations. A GPS receiver is capable of detecting time differences in signals received from the GPS satellites and these differences are taken into account in order to calculate the distance of the receiver from each satellite. The satellites transmit their precise location as well as trajectory. With an understanding about the location of satellites and the distances of the receiver from a number of satellites, it can possible to triangulate the exact location of the receiver. In order to calculate a precise location fix, we need to resolve four variables: x, y, z which are location variables and t which is the time variable. Hence measurements are to be made from at least four satellites. GPS provides 24 hour navigation services which include: Three-dimensional and extremely accurate location information that includes latitude, longitude and altitude along with velocity and precise time. Worldwide common grid that can be easily converted to local grid according to your requirement. Continuous real-time information Passive all-weather operations Support to all the users and areas Support to the civilian users at a level that is slightly less accurate. GPS tracking for Outd oor De mographic Ratings - Nielsen Outdoor and RDP Associates, have been able to develop a proprietary GPS devicecalled the Nielsen Personal Outdoor Device or just Npod™ which is about the size of a cell phone. People carry this device in their purses, pockets or wear it like a cell phone. Members from a randomly chosen sample are made to carry an Npod™ which is linked to orbiting satellites and as they move about either on foot or in vehicles the device enables Nielsen Outdoor to identify their speed, location and direction of travel, continuously, passively and easily. In order to determine exposure estimates to any outdoor displays, travel information of the routes followed by an individual is gathered and this is matched with a list of geo-coded outdoor sites for obtaining passages or an opportunity to look at the specific outdoor sites. Whenever the respondent's travel path intersects with any known outdoor site, it results in the recording of an "intercept", in such a manner that each event is dated and time-stamped, and at the same time, the direction as well as speed of travel is also noted. This provides with a robust set of data with an "opportunity to see" an outdoor display. The unique technology also enables Nielsen Outdoor to measure exposure to transit advertising quite accurately, or an opportunity to see outside advertising on any bus. Comprehensive audience estimates can easily be calculated from this information which includes statistics like reach and frequency, for a day of the week, time of day and also across multiple days as well as weeks for various demographic groups. One key benefit of this system is the use of advanced GPS technology alongwith sophisticated computer processing which can establish travel patterns in the "urban canyon" environments. These are locations which are found between tall buildings. In these locations a standard GPS unit is unable to obtain a fix from three or more satellites. As a result, the standard unit cannot identify a person's position. As a result, it gives the first ever person based GPS device that is capable of accurately determining location. Here's all you need to know in order to pick a perfect personal navigation device: The best way to buy a personal navigation device o PND is to start with the basics which include a large and readable display along with pre-loaded maps and a considerably strong receiver . The next step is to tackle the question of the amount of control required over your routes because a number of devices can help you avoid traffic, tolls and even speeding ticke ts. Then consider the extras that you're willing to spring for. Do you actually need a built-in multimedia player or a camera? You can find a number of high-end devices which have advanced navigation features along with a ton of extras which can set you back by as much a $1,000. It must be kept in mind that the budget GPS category is growing at a fast rate and you can easily find some great devices for less than $350 . As you will be driving in all kinds of weather conditions, both during the day and night, the screen visibility is key feature. Ideally, there should be a bright screen which has an antiglare coating. As far as size is concerned, most of the devices fall within the range of 3.5 to 5 inches. The ideal GPS device will have a number of routing options, large points of interest or POI database, built-in maps, and most important of all, a strong receiver. Good receiver is the one that has exceptional Time to First Fix or TTFF which is the time it takes for a receiver to find its position in any new location and its ability to get a signal even in case of dense urban environments. As far as POI databases are concerned, the best GPS devices provide you with the flexibility of searching for POIs along a route, within a city near your destination or home. Most of them top off at six million entries or so, but it must be mentioned that there are exceptions. The higher-end devices have twelve million POIs. A handy feature that can keep you safe is text-to-speech conversion. A unit that has got this capability can pronounce street names in apart from announcing upcoming turns. For instance, instead of hearing"In one point five miles turn left," you will hear "In one point five miles turn left on Broadway." It means that you need not take your eyes off the road in order to look at the street name that appears on the screen. Many text-to-speech GPS devices allow you choose whether you wish to have a man's or a woman's voice announcing different maneuvers, and with some models you can also choose a celebrity to direct you. This feature is now available even on lower-priced devices. If you find yourself in the middle of a traffic jam, then you can save your sanity with the help of a traffic receiver, which is provided as an optional feature on a number of PNDs. These receivers can grab real-time traffic reports that are based on your location, and even divert you around high traffic areas which may be accidents and construction zones. You will have to pay subscription fee of about $50 every year, but a number of companies offer the first few months free. This gives you a chance to try it out. Many GPS devices are capable of handling much more than navigation. Video players, music players and photo viewers are great bonuses as long as they are easy to use and as long as there is ample additional storage space for your media. Remember that these files will be sharing space with your maps and navigation tools. It must be mentioned that there are devices that can accept memory cards up to 16GB, which will obviously hold plenty of videos, songs, and photos.