Hoboken has 48 streets laid out in a grid pattern East/West streets are numbered, the North/South streets are named. Many of them after US presidents such as Washington, Monroe, Adams and Madison. However it is thought that Clinton Street s is named after DeWitt Clinton, a 19th century politician . Hoboken was first settled by the Dutch in the 17th century as part of the Novo Belgio (New Netherland) colony. Once a major shipping port, it is now mainly a dormitory town for workers in New York City. Colonel John Stevens purchased the land on which the city sits and it was he who came up with the name Hoboken. It is not known exactly the meaning behind the name Hoboken, but it could be named after the Flemish town of Hoboken, or after the Von Hoboken family of Rotterdam. The word 'hobo' is thought to derive from the many groups of travellers who set out by railroad from Hoboken. Hoboken started out as an island between the Hudson River on the east and the tidal lands of the New Jersey Palisades on the west. It was a campsite for the Hackensack part of the Lenape, that was used seasonally. The Lenape are thought to have lived on lands around the Hudson Delaware River for more than 2800 years . They would later be known as Delaware Indians. O n the 2nd of October 1609 an Englishman called Henry Hudson on a sailing trip on behalf of the Dutch East India Company arrived at Weehawken Cove in his ship The Half Moon and laid his claim on the area. During WWI the Hamburg-American Line piers in Hoboken were taken over and used for the war effort. Part of the city was under martial law. The high German population in the city led to anti-German problems and many of them were either forced to move to Ellis Island, or left the city of their own accord fearing for their own safety. Hoboken became the major point of embarkation for more than three million soldiers. It caused General Pershing to coin the famous slogan " Heaven , Hell or Hoboken... by Christmas ." After the war the main groups of people living in the city were the Italians and the Irish. There was also an influx of Jewish people from Europe who came to Hoboken and set up businesses. During the Depression there were jobs available in the ships yards and the factories. Tenement buildings were full to capacity. Again, during WWII, Hoboken was a place of importance due to the location, the transportation and the many factories. In the late 70s there were a series of fires in Hoboken, some of which were proved to be arson. This actually helped to turn around the fortunes of the city as a developer built new housing under a scheme to create subsidised housing for people on lower incomes. This brought about an influx of artists and musicians, and Hoboken soon became known as a fashionable place to live. The Clam Broth House which opened in 1899 was a landmark building however it was found to be structurally unsound and was condemned pulled down in 2004.The building was of interest due to the giant hand-shaped signs tht hung outside it. One pointed down towards the entrance, and the other was on a nearby building, which is still in place today. More recently, Applied Development have several large development projects in Hoboken. The Shipyard is a development of 1,160 residences, retail shops, ferry stop and marina on the Hudson River and 333 River Street which consists of 526 premium rental residences and retail shops on the Hudson River facing Manhattan in Hoboken. The City of Hoboken is governed under the Faulkner Act system of a Mayor and a City Council consisting of nine members. Three members elected from the city as a whole, and six further members, one from each of the city's six wards The members are elected for year terms which are staggered. Candidates run independent of any political party backing. T he elections for Mayor of Hoboken and the city council have mostly operated by Hoboken's community.There has always been a strong connection between City Hall and the citizens of Hoboken. The mayor and council members have usually been born and raised in Hoboken. There are some amazing places to eat in Hoboken. For something a little different you could try Helmers Cafe on Washington Street that serves traditional German food and beer. The Crepe Grill on Sinatra Drive is right on the Hudson river so you can enjoy a huge variety of sweet and savoury crepes while enjoying stunning views of the river and Manhattan. It's Greek To Me on Washington Street is a traditional Greek restaurant serving up delicious Greek cuisine including some wonderful sharing platters. Elysian Cafe on Washington Street is a casual French bistro with a relaxing atmosphere open for dinner and brunch. The Kebab House on Newark Street is a takeaway but there are a few seats if you like to eat inside. They offer a wide array of gorgeous Mediterranean dishes. After your meal how about a trip to Maxwell's? A nightclub popular in the 80's featuring intimate shows from the B52s, REM, the Minutemen and the Feelies. Or if rock music is more your scene, then Whisky Bar at the train station end of Washington Street is a great place to spend an evening. On July 29, 2005, a miniature statue of Jesus, part of a shrine at the corner of Jackson Street and Third Street, apparently opened one of its eyes on its own. Some believe it is a miracle, others believe it is a hoax.