Afghanistan is alandlocked country which can be found in the southwest-centralregion of Asia. Since ancient times, this part of Asia has beencrossed by invaders from Persia, Macedonia, the Arab region, Turkeyand Mongolia. The tribes of Afghanistan were united in the 18thcentury under one leader. It became a fully independent state inthe year 1919. The capital of Afghanistan is Kabul.

There is anestimated 31,900,000 population in the country. HISTORY Afghanistan is located astride the landroutes between the subcontinent of India, Iran, and the centralregion of Asia. Because of its prime location, Afghanistan hasenticed conquerors throughout history.

Afghanistan has highmountains which hindered unity among tribes. However, it also hasan important role in helping the hill tribes to preserve theirindependence. There is a high possibility that there werewell-developed civilizations in Afghanistan even in prehistorictimes.

However, there are no clear evidence given by availablearchaeological records. The cultures had flourished in the northand east parts of the territory before Darius I (c.500 B.C.), thePersian king conquered these areas. At a latter date, Alexander theGreat conquered (329327 B.C.) Afghanistan on his way toIndia. Upon the death of Alexander (323 B.C.) theAfghan region at became part of the Seleucid empire for some time.Bactria, the northern part became independent, and the south wasconquered by the dynasty of Maurya.

Bactria was able to expandsouthward but fell to the rebellious tribes and Parthians (alsoknown as the Saka). The Buddhist religion was introduced from bythe Y echi. The Kushan dynasty was founded during early 2d cent. The capital of the dynasty was Peshawar.

A.D., the Kushans declinedand were supplanted by the Sassanids, the Ephthalites, andthe Turkish Tu-Kuie. In the 7th cent, theconquest of Afghanistan, by the Muslims, began. There were severalshort-lived Muslim dynasties that were founded. Mahmud of Ghaznawas characterized as the greatest among the rulers of Afghanistan.He was able to conquer the lands from Khorasan in Iran to thePunjab in India early in the 11th cent. Jenghiz Khan (c.1220) andTimur (late 14th cent.) were the known subsequent conquerors of thearea.

Babur, who was a descendant of Timur, stayed in Kabul andmade it the base for his conquest of India. Kabul was also made forthe establishment of the Mughal empire in the 16th cent. In the18th cent. the Persian Nadir Shah extended his term as a ruler ofthe Hindu Kush. After his death in 1747, his lieutenant, AhmadShah, who has served as an Afghan tribal leader, was able toestablish a united state which covers most of present-dayAfghanistan. The dynasty of Ahmad Shah was called the Durrani. Thisname gave the Afghans the name Durrani which they themselvesfrequently use.

The Afghan Wars and Independence The reign of the Durrani dynasty ended in theyear 1818. After the dynasty, no predominant ruler emerged untilDost Muhammad has become the emir in the year 1826. During the ruleof the emir, the status of Afghanistan became an problem to theinternational community.

The leaders of both Britain and Russiaaimed to work for influence in central Asia. Britain and Russiaacted to control access to the northern approaches to India. TheBritish leaders have tried to replace Dost Muhammad with anotheremir in order to subordinate the Afghan region. This policylaunched by Britain caused the first Afghan War between the Afghansand the British. Dost Muhammad was deposed at first. After anAfghan revolt which happened in Kabul, Dost Muhammad was restored.In the year 1857, Dost Muhammad signed a pact of alliance with theBritish.

He died in the year 1863 and was succeeded by his thirdson, Sher Ali. The succession occurred not without familialfighting. The Russians were able to acquire territorybordering on the Amu Darya. Sher Ali and the British had somemisunderstandings on the agreement and the second Afghan War beganin the year 1878. Sher Ali died in 1879. His successor was YakubKhan who ceded the Khyber Pass and other areas of Afghanistan tothe British. After a British envoy was murdered, the Britishoccupied Kabul. Abd ar-Rahman Khan was afterwards recognized asemir in the year 1880.

Afghanistan's borders were more preciselydefined in the following years. Russia, British India and Persiahad some border agreements. These are known as the Durand Agreementin 1893. The agreement between Britain and Russia in 1907 grantedthe independence of Afghanistan from the British influence inforeign affairs. Abd ar-Rahman Khan died in 1901. He was succeededby his son Habibullah. Afghanistan remained neutral in World War Iin spite of pressure from its British ally. Habibullah wasassassinated in 1919.

His successor was Amanullah. Amanullahattempted to free himself of British influence. He tried to invadeIndia 1919. The Treaty of Rawalpindi ended the third Afghan War.This marked the authority and power of Afghanistan to gain fullcontrol over its foreign relat ions.

GOVERNMENT The government of Afghanistan is currentlyunder the constitution of 2004. The president serves as bothh ead of state and of government. Thepresident is popularly elected for a term of five years and mayserve a second term.

The president has the power and authority toappoint a cabinet. However, the members of the cabinet must beapproved by the legislative branch of the government. Thelegislature of Afghanistan is called the National Assembly. It isbicameral in nature. The lower house is called the House of thePeople (Wolesi Jirga). The lower house consists of no more than 249members.

The members of the lower house are directly elected to aterm of five years. The upper house is called the House of Elders(Meshrano Jirga). The upper house has 102 members. A third of theupper house members are elected by provincial councils and haveterms of four years. Another third of the upper house is elected bydistrict councils and has terms of three years.

The rest of themembers of the upper house should have half of it women. Thispercentage of the upper house is appointed by the president andallowed to stay in office for five years. Every law passed by theAssembly should be in accordance to the Islam religion. Foradministrative matters, the country is divided to 34provinces.