The original book The Music Man (which became a book and then a movie) was conceived, developed, written and published by Meredith Reiniger Willson, who was born at a very young age on May 18, 1902 in his parents' home in Mason City, Iowa. He was a gifted lad (although his writing skills developed later) and he even learned to play the flute as a child - and began playing semi-professionally while still in high school - in days when this was hardly a suitable occupation for a growing lad in baseball-mad Iowa. Meredith, however was not deterred. After graduating from Mason City High School, the young man left Iowa to study at the Damrosch Institute of Musical Art (later the Julliard School).

The School's visionary founders had been distressed that so many talented young American musicians going off to study musically in Europe because local facilities did not exist. These days, many of those who still go to Europe to so because they are no longer America's best.

Meredith Reiniger Willson 's The Music Man ran for 1,375 sensational performances after it opened on Broadway on December 19, 1957. Amazingly the cast album won the very first Grammy Award ever presented. After that, The Music Man went on to win eight Tony Awards. Among these Meredith clocked up Best Musical, and Best Composer and Lyricist too. Inevitably, The Music Man hit the big screen in 1962 , and became one of the most successful musicals ever filmed. Of the original cast it was really only the incomparable Robert Preston who was retained from the Broadway show.

Beyond him, it was a stellar cast that included Shirley Jones, Buddy Hacket and a very young Ronnie Howard. An elaborate set was constructed in Hollywood for the filming. Equally inevitably, the movie version premiered in Mason City in spectacular fashion. Over a hundred marching bands from throughout Iowa and across the nation participated in a four-hour parade in support of the movie studio, with Meredith Willson personally conducting the music while stars like Preston, Jones and Howard looked on and enjoyed the parade and premiere celebration. The movie The Music Man was nominated for several Academy Awards, and won Best Musical Score.

Beatle Fans still remember Paul McCartney singing the love ballad Till There Was You on their 1964 Album Meet The Beatles .

And that's really what true theater's all about. A great story line, a little slap and tickle, a professionally-run venue and a cast who know what they're about. And then of course the meal thereafter at the Candlelight Restaurant, although you'll have to wait a little longer to savor that. I think there's a joker in the pack in all of us, just bursting to get out and have a little fun at other peoples' expense. I also think that that's what makes The Music Man such a fantastic gig for everybody. We can vicariously indulge in all our fancies, yet comfortable in the knowledge that we won't be called to cross over the Rubicon after all (because every theater story has a happy ending by definition). I guess that escapism is a rush we all need from time-to-time too. Something to take us away from the here-and-now into the realms of what-might-have-been or what-never-was.

When I was a child at school there was a poem in my workbook (I think) called "Boxes". It was the story of a factory-worker who spent his life making identical boxes every day. After his daily task was done he retired to his simple, lonely home, took out his violin and played so magnificently that it was as if he soared straight up to heaven.

Drama The root of "drama" is the little words "to do". This makes a good deal of sense, for this is the branch of theatre in which things happen. Classical forms of drama, including Greek and Roman drama, classic English drama and French drama including Molire are still performed today.

Is The Music Man a drama piece. Well no, not quite, although seventy six trombones are undeniably quite a dramatic sight. Musical Theatre Well there's certainly an element of this in The Music Man . In fact, music and theatre have always had a close relationship as it is the form of theatre combining spoken dialogue, music, songs, and dance routines that everybody loves. Modern musical theater evolved from variety shows and "follies" of the early 20th Century. Broadway musicals of the 21st Century include lavish costumes and sets supported by million dollar budgets. Comedy Certain theatre productions qualify as comedies, such as Boeing Boeing or As You Like It.

There's a strong element of comedy in The Music Man . Stand-up comedy is also a form of theater. Horses and Courses Repertory Companies Repertory companies rehearse multiple shows at one time - while most modern theater companies rehearse one show at a time, perform that piece for a set "run", retire the piece, and begin rehearsing a new show. These companies are able to perform various pieces from their portfolio upon request and often perform works for years before retiring them. Most dance companies operate on this repertory system. Producing versus Presenting The Carr Theater in Amsterdam Both a theater company and a theatrical venue are needed in order to put on a dramatic piece.

Some companies, such as dance companies for example, do not have their own venues. These companies will therefore either perform at rental premises or at presenting theaters. When a theater company is the sole company in residence at a theater venue, this business (and its corresponding theater company) is called the producing theater, because the venue produces its own work.

Both rental and presenting theaters have no full time resident companies though. They do, however, sometimes have one (or multiple) part time resident companies, in addition to other independent partner companies who arrange to use the space when available. A rented theater thus allows the independent companies to seek out their space, while a presenting theatre seeks out independent companies to support their work by presenting their own on another company's stage. However, many performing, groups have challenged this tradition and have been putting on their work in non-theatrical spaces for decades. These performances can take place outside or inside, in a non-traditional performance space, and include street theater, and site specific theater such as a museum or church. A touring company is an independent theater or dance company that travels, often internationally, being presented at a different theater in each city. Amateur versus Professional Theatres run the gamut from amateur to professional.

In community theatres, as well as in educational theatre, actors are typically not paid. Fringe theatre productions are typically paid, but minimally so. Broadway productions are known for their large budgets. The spectrum of amateur to professional is as follows: Community theatre Educational theatre Dinner theatre Fringe theatre Summer stock theatre Regional theatre Off-Off-Broadway Off-Broadway and Off West End Broadway theatre and West End theatre Unions There are many theater unions including the Society of Stage Directors and Choreographers, the Actors Equity Association (for actors and stage managers), and the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees (for designers and technicians). Many theaters require that their staff be members of these organizations. This is to create a sense of unity that prevents the core from falling apart.