Ornamental Iron and Aluminum Fences The traditional ornamental wrought iron is still one of the most beautiful and decorative options. It is a custom built fence. It is extremely decorative and at the same time it is one of the strongest and sturdiest fences available. It is common to see these as security fences designed to accommodate automatic door openers and other security systems. Ornamental steel matches iron in strength and it is hot dipped galvanized and powder coated. So, it does not have problems with rust. Ornamental aluminum is extremely attractive, and made with an aluminum alloy that rivals iron and steel in strength. White Cedar Boards vs. Red Cedar and Treated Boards for fences In today's marketplace, it is not always easy for consumers to make educated decisions. With the multitude of stores selling treated or Red Cedar materials, it is easy to assume that it is the best option for building a fence. Unfortunately, the consumers do not realize how untrue it is. Treated boards are certainly the least expensive and it is because of this reason so many stores prefer to offer it. However, as most people know, you get what you pay for. In terms of Red Cedar, there are a multitude of disadvantages in using it. Red Cedar mainly grows in Oregon. It is a larger tree and at the same time it is darker in color. With the passage of time, Red Cedar will fade to almost black. Red Cedar does not have a natural preventative and therefore, it's lifespan is much shorter. Red Cedar's grain is very different from that of White Cedar. Its grain promotes splitting and checking in the boards. Northern White Cedar boards consist of cells that absorb very little water. It has natural inhibitors to fight off rot and decay. As a matter of fact, White Cedar is one of the more stable woods. It will shrink less than one percent, and rarely warps, twists or cups which is quite unlike treated wood, generally made from Yellow Pine, and famous for all threeunwanted characteristics. According to the US Forestry Service, treated wood is no better than White Cedar at withstanding the rigors of Ohio weather Just as a wooden ship is constructed with a variety of wood species for a purpose, your wood fence can also benefit from using a variety of species. In other words, treated materials do have a place in the construction of a fence. MicroPro treated wood for the posts , preferably made of Red Pine is recommended. 7. Build a fence gate The fence gate opening should be at least 36" wide with posts on both sides of the gate firmly set in the ground. The gate frame should have lapped corners and a diagonal brace to ensure strength. The vertical rails on the frame should be sawn to fit between the horizontal rails. The frame should always be 1" narrower than the distance between the inside of the two gate posts to allow the gate to swing freely. Nail the first board in place flush with the edge of the vertical rail on the hinge side of the gate frame, continue across with additional boards until full width of gate is reached. Fit gate to opening and trim excess material until the gate fits the opening properly. Finally, attach hinges and latch. In case a stop is required, nail a piece of fencing material on the latch post. 8. Finish your fence Use 2 or 3 coats of a good quality paint or stain. Many people paint the posts, rails and boards prior to assembly to ensure that all pieces have a complete coating of paint. Tape Measure Level Pliers Wire Cutters Sledge Hammer Post Hole Digger Wheelbarrow, Shovel and Hoe to Mix and Transport Concrete Hacksaw or Pipe Cutter String / Mason Line and Stakes Crescent Wrench Fence Stretcher (ratchet type power pull or a block and tackle device may be used. Most wire stretching tools can easily be borrowed or locally rented.) 1. Survey Property Lines Be sure that your fence does not exceed property lines in any direction.This can be done by stretching a string along the property line. 2. Locate and set Terminal Posts Distance between gate posts is determined by adding the actual width of the gate plus an allowance for hinges and latches. Usually walk gates require 3 3/4" for hinges and latches and double drive gates require 5 1/2". Dig the holes. Terminal posts should be set 2" higher as compared to the height of the fence fabric and line posts 2" lower as compared to the the height of the fence fabric (terminal posts should be 4" higher than the line posts). Set the terminal posts in concrete using a concrete mix. You can use 1 part cement, 2 parts sand and 4 parts gravel. There is also pre-mix cement. Use a level to ensure that the posts are straight. Posts should be centered in the hole. Crown the posts footings so the water will drain away from the posts. 3. Locate and set Line Posts After the concrete around the terminal posts has hardened, stretch a string tight between the terminal posts in such a manner that the string is 4" below the top of the terminal posts. Line posts should not be spaced more than 10 feet apart. Dig the post holes and set the line posts like terminal posts. Before the concrete begins to set, adjust the post height by moving the post up or down. Ensure that the op of the line posts is even with the string. Check with level in order to make sure that posts are straight. 4. Apply Fittings to Terminal Posts Check material list and fittings chart above. After all the posts have been installed and the concrete footings have hardened, slip the tension and brace bands onto the terminal posts. The long flat surface of the tension band should face towards the outside of the fence. Take care not to spread or distort the fittings. After this, you may apply terminal post caps. 5. Apply Top Rail Attach loop caps to line posts. Insert one length of top rail pipe through the eye-top closest to one of the terminal post. Slide a rail end onto the end of the top rail and attach it to a termianl post by using the brace band . Secure the rail end to the brace band with the help of a carriage bolt. Continue by attaching top rails together. In case the swedged top rail is not used, the rail ends may be connected together by making use of top rail sleeve. Upon reaching the other terminal post, measure carefully and cut the top rail so that it fits tightly into the rail end. Secure rail end to the terminal post with brace band and carriage bolt. 6. Hang Chain Link Fabric Unroll the chain link fabric on the ground along the fence line. Slide tension bar through the last link on the chain link fabric. Stand the fabric up and lay it against the posts. Fasten the tension bar which had been inserted to the terminal post with tension bands. Use carriage bolts with head to the outside of the fence. Walk along the fence and take the slack out. Attach the fabric loosely to the top rail with a few wire ties. In order to connect two sections or rolls of the fence fabric together take a single strand of wire from one of the sections of fence and place the two sections of fence next to each other. Join the two sections by winding the loose strand down through the fence in a corkscrew fashion. Join and tighten the knuckles at bottom and top. As a result, you will not be able to see where the two sections were connected together. The excess chain link fence fabric can be removed if you untie both top and bottom ends of fence. Twist the wire in a corkscrew fashion until the fence comes apart. 7. Stretch Chain Link Fabric Fabric should be fastened to the opposite end of the fence. Insert a tension bar approximately 3 feet inside the unattached end of the fabric. Fasten one end of the fence stretcher to the tension bar and the other end to the terminal post. Stretch the fabric in such a manner that the correct tension should allow a slight amount of give when squeezed by hand. The top of the fabric should be located approximately 1/2" above the top rail. Adjust fabric to the required length by adding or removing wire as mentioned in the previous step. Insert a tension bar at the end of the fabric and connect the tension bands on the terminal post. Remove the fence stretcher. Attach wire ties to the top rail 24" apart. Attach wire ties to the posts 12" apart. Tighten all the nuts. 8. Hanging Gates After the fence has been completed, install the male hinges to one of the gate posts in such a manner that the top hinge hangs with the pin pointing downward and the bottom hinge with the pin pointing upward. This will prevent the gate from being lifted off. Set gate in place while aligning the top of the gate with the top of fence. Adjust and tighten the hinges to allow for full swing. Install a gate latch in case of a single gate. Double gates use the same procedure but the latching device is installed at the center. Note: Post depth can be determined by local weather and soil conditions. The terminal posts are normally dug 10" wide and 18" to 30" deep. Depending upon the wind and the soil conditions you may use 8' centers or even a narrower spacing for the line posts. If you wish to add privacy slats in the future, make sure the frame work is strong enough for additional wind load. 1. While nailing rails or boards horizontally, do not have all the joints on one post. S taggering the joints will make y our fence stronger. 2. While assembling a large number of boards with equal spacing, ensure that the first board is straight. Use a spacer or cleat to ensure equal spacing of the boards. 3. Use galvanized nails or equivalent to prevent staining your finished fence. 4. Cut all boards to the desired length before nailing rails to posts. The boards should generally be cut to a nominal length to ensure square corners and smooth ends. If this is the case, rails should be spaced according to board lengths.