They are most frequently pests of clothing, carpets,rugs, upholstery fabrics, piano felts, brush bristles, blankets,hair from pets, furs, lint from woolens, and any stored woolor silk products. Clothes moth larvae will,at times, damage other products such as cotton, linen, silk,synthetic fibers and paper. Such damage , however, is usually incidental , resulting from the larva damaging such fiberswhile eating its natural food. Clothes moth larvae are particularly damaging to fabrics stained with materials suchas oil from human hair, human sweat, urine, beer, tomato juice,milk, and soft drinks. These caterpillars cannot survive on"clean" wool, but require the nutritional supplements foundin body oils from the wearer of agarment. there is rarely any silken webbing spun onthe fabric or other material where the larvafeeds. Larvae wander about on food material feeding a little here and a little there,but rarely do extensive damage at any one spot or in a small area. When ready to pupate , thelarva draws itself completely within its case , sealsboth ends of the case with silk and pupates in this cocoon. In the northern Unites States , pupae are usually the only stagefound during the winter months , but all stages can befound in the South throughout the year . This moth is aparticular pest of feathers and down , although it canfeed readily on almost any material listedabove . But you can Mothinate them! Webbing Clothes Moth This isthe most commonly encountered clothes moth in the UnitedStates. It is found in all states, thoughit seldom occurs in very dry areas of theUnited States. Adultfemales can mate and lay eggs during the same day they emerge from the cocoon . Adults normally live about1 5 to 30 days , although in colder weather this time may beextended somewhat. The eggs are oval,ivory-colored , and about 1/25 inch long . They are laideither singly or in small groups among the threads orin cracks of a suitable food material and are usually attached to this food material with a gelatinoussecretion . Each female lays an average of 40 to 50 eggs , but some may lay up to 200 . In thesummer these eggs will hatch in 4 to 10 days , but in winterit may take a month or more. More great advice you will find,will tell you that f a bric pest detection requires a thorough knowledge of pest biology and behavior . You are expected to know where pet foods, mountedanimal specimens, insect collections, skins, furs, woolens, seeds,organic fertilizers, and other items likely to be infested are stored . You are expected to know if thereare bird nests under the eaves or in the attic, or if thereare any wasp or hornet nests nearby. Knowing the answers to these questions, you are told,will save a great deal of time. With Mothinator , the only thing you need to know iswhere the moth larvae live. Before makingany attempt at control, make a thoroughinspection of infested premises t o find all sources of infestation . R emember that adults ofthese insects do not feed on woolens or on any of the othermaterials which may be attacked by the larvae. The presence ofadults in an area does not necessarily mean that larvaeare in the same area . In fact, the adults mayhave already laid their eggs in some other room andmay be moving around at random or orienting towards brightsunlight shining through windows. Once their eggs are laid theywill want to get outdoors. Clothes moth larvae feedin secluded and protected places. When searching for them, a good flashlight and a knife , nail file or smallspatula are essential tools . Larvae will usually befound in dark clothes closets ; or on furs, woolens,hair padding, bits of carpeting, or other such materials instorage. They are also found in lint . So make sure you look under baseboards andaround door casings , under the edges of carpeting , inand under upholstered furniture , in collections of animalhair, in air ducts , occasionally in cereals in the kitchenor pantry, and anywhere else where suitable food material might beavailable. It is also important to considercertain natural sources of infestation. Articles of woolen clothing may have been stored and neglected. O ld furniture and rugs may be a source of continuing infestation on thepremises. Other importantreservoirs which are often overlooked include siteswhich represent the natural habitat of these insects.C ommon points of origin or continuation of fabric pest infestation includes parrow, starling, or other bird nests , inside or outsideof the premises. Wasp nests under the eaves and in atticsare also common sources of clothes moth infestations. Moth larvae feed upon the remainders of deadinsects fed to the wasp larvae, on cast wasplarval skins and sometimes upon the living wasplarvae. Another important source of foodmaterial for clothes moth larvae is accumulations of animalhair . These are quite common in homes with pets . Shedhair may accumulate in heating ducts , beneath furniture , or in hard-to-clean corners . These loose tangles of hair may be sufficient to sustain asmall population of fabric pests for a long period oftime, even when all wool products have beentreated. The most commonly recommended chemical for preventivecontrol in storage situations acts as a repellent andcontinuous fumigant . Stored woolens should be interspaced with crystals of this material, whichmust be wrapped in clean paper, and the fabrics must be packed into tightly sealed trunks orboxes. Use of tight containers such as large, sealed plastic bags, which are then kept in tightboxes or chests, is important toward obtaining optimumprotection for the longest possible time. For this to workeffectively, it is important to maintain the highest possibleconcentration of the chemical vapors inside the plasticbag containing the susceptible items. Naphthalene moth ballsare less desirable , and are also less effective . Cedar closets and most cedar chests are ineffective,primarily because a sufficiently tight seal is rarelymaintained . The usual solution to handling infestations ofclothes moths is an extensive program of insecticide applications, after appropriate sanitation. Sprayinsecticides and various non-residual materials are oftenrecommended for spot treatment or more general applications, asnecessary. Residual sprays are generally applied with a handsprayer, using a fine fan-spray nozzle. Critical areas of infestation , usually identified during the inspectionprocess, usually receive special attention . In carpets, thiswould be around baseboard areas and under furniture .In furniture, this would be around seams, buttons, other cracks andcrevices and padding areas. All insecticides areapplied as a rather fine wet spray , directly tomaterial being treated. Applications to upholstery fabrics will frequently result in staining ,not causedby the pesticide but caused by the water. When treating carpets with insecticides , you must be careful to prevent staining or soiling . If possible, the carpet shouldbe cleaned before insecticide treatment . You must be very careful not to soil the treated carpet with dirtfrom shoes or other sources, not walk on treated areas untilafter they have thoroughly dried. It will often be best to remove all furniture from a room which is to be treated. But thisis often not possible due to the size and weight of thefurniture involved, or lack of space to put it elsewhere. If furniture can be moved and the carpeting under it treated, it canbe replaced in its original location. However , when placingfurniture on treated carpet, you must be sure to place somekind of temporary pad under the casters or skids on thebottom, as well as entirely underneath any other wood ormetal articles which may touch the carpet. Failure to do this mayresult in the formation of rust marks on the carpet frommetal parts, or stain marks from the wooden portions offurniture. Both types of stain are almost impossible toremove and can result in costly damage claims . The pads mustremain in place until the carpet is thoroughly dry, usually 2 or 3 days . With Mothinator you do not have to move heavy furniture, or risk permanent stains. Regardless of theinsecticide being used, you must keep small children andpets away from treated furniture and carpeting untilthey are thoroughly dry. These chemicals may be hazardous while they are wet. Each insecticide product mayhave other risks , and caution statements which may apply tothis use. If furniture is infested ,it may be necessary to open cushions or to remove thecovering from the bottom of sofas or chairs, so the padding will be exposed . Special attention must begiven to the padding inside upholstered furniture, which may be composed of feathers or horsehair ,which is highly susceptible to insect damage. Exposedpadding can then be treated with sprays, or it can be thoroughly dusted with a suitable dust. Dust applications aregenerally preferred for this situation, because there will be nodrying time required and dusts usually give long residual control. However , dusts should not be used where subsequent contact with skin or clothing can be expected,so exposed upholstery surfaces or carpeted areas on which people orpets will sit should not be dusted. When infestations are notheavy, non-residual or contact spray applicationswill kill both exposed adults and larvae. But for these sprays tobe effective, they must be applied closely to cracks andcrevices with as much force as possible to drive the sprayin deeply. An aerosol spray is frequently effective inclosets. But all such applications, require you toexercise a great deal of care to avoid staining of clothes,walls, or furniture. Many professional pest companiesapply a residual insecticide to all of the appropriateareas, and then follow up with an aerosol application of anon-residual insecticide to assure complete control of adultor larval stages which may not be directly in the areastreated with the residual material. This dual application approachis appropriate when damage is extensive and widespread when many active adult insects have beenseen in widely scattered areas of the premises; or during seasonswhen egg-laying is occurring in the area. With Mothinator you do not have to risk your, or your family's , health. And you do not have the hassle ofmoving or stripping furniture. And once other pest control companies havetreated your home with chemicals , they will expect you tocontinue to work to keep your home free of moths. Preventive procedures include preventivesanitation and related chemical measures , as well asprotection by mothproofing garments or fabrics. Much can be done to prevent fabric pest problems through simple household cleanliness ,including thorough and frequent vaccuum cleaning ofcarpeting and upholstery, and brushing, airing, and dry-cleaningsusceptible clothing or other articles. Avoid prolonged storage of discarded garments, bedding, any fur or animalpelts--including unprotected taxidermy--and old wool rugs orfurniture upholstered with vulnerable fabrics. Remember that a clean environment is not the favourite environment of fabric-destroyinginsects. Articles of otherwise indigestible materials, or garments of wool blend fabrics can also be attacked if soiled . In all moth control work , it isessential to eliminate as many potential breedingplaces as possible. Old pieces of woolen fabric, cut off piecesof carpeting, old feather pillows, dried flower arrangements or"shadow boxes" containing caches of seeds, and other such sourcesof fabric insect food should be destroyed . Areas under baseboards, behind doorcasings, under heat radiators, and inside furnace or airconditioning registers should be thoroughly cleaned with avacuum cleaner to remove as much lint as possible. A vacuumcleaner with strong suction is a valuable piece of equipment. Mothinator stops moths coming back. Traditional methods require Mo thproofing. Mothproofing and clothes moth control are two different things. Mothproofingimplies preventive applications of an insecticide toavoid infestation. Clothes moth control is the correction ofan existing infestation . Mothproofing is oftenaccomplished by a special treatment during the manufactureof woolen fabric or other susceptible items. Various mothproofers willgive protection from moth damage. These chemicals depend fortheir action on killing larvae either after lightfeeding or brief contact . Many fabrics which are treated with a mothproofing solution at the time ofmanufacture are safe from damage until the chemicals are removed , either by washing , dry cleaning orsimple degradation . You should never attempt tomothproof articles of clothing on your own. When you desire to haveclothing treated, such treatment must be made during drycleaning , and in many places, such treatment is not available. Such mothproofing of clothing is usually quite effectiveover the, often short, length of time between cleanings, orfor storage during the summer months. There are general mothproofing applications for articles besides clothing(carpets, area rugs, tapestries, drapes, etc.). Generally, theseare applied to these items after they have been removed and dry cleaned , and while located in aconvenient place which facilitates thorough application. Finesprays should be carefully applied to obtain thoroughcoverage, but only after possible staining problemshave been considered and tests done to assure such problems will not arise. 