The Nile River Last year, about this time, my partner and I were kicking up our heels in Monte Carlo waiting for something interesting to happen. We had climbed Mount Kilimanjaro, canoed down the Amazon and gone skydiving with famous people too. Our hotel was a grand affair with crystal chandeliers, high ceilings and marble floors, but by now we had grown weary of the local restaurants and endless queues of people pirouetting on the beach in swimsuits. The Grand Prix had come and gone with screaming crowds and high-pitched engines.

I was grateful when the love of my love of life returned from shopping, with a parcel in a bag. "What that," I asked. In return I got a mischievous grin. "Oh nothing, was their answer.

Just something lighthearted for a little fun." "I'm getting too old for that ..."I said. It's just a game for bored people. You'll have to wait to find out more." "The best part of all," my beloved a dded , " is that there is no limit to the number of players who can join in the fun." "Oh great," I said. "Let's invite that sweet young waitress to join us in the morning." "I have an even better idea.

Why not go on a genuine expedition down the Nile, and play the game with perfect strangers, at least in our own minds?' "Where did you get this thing?" "It's positively ancient!" "But still new," friend pointed out. "I found it at Piero Corsini, an old master art collector and dealer also known as Maison d'Art.

The shop's catalog includes collections of rare and precious artworks. It offers a large number of antique items and collectibles, including a spectacular assortment of furnishings which date back to the 14th and 15th centuries. I couldn't afford anything else, so I decided the game was worth having." I found myself wondering who our future playing companions might be, as we traveled down through enigmatic Egypt along the Nile. A Mata Hari in an alluring dress that concealed a razor-sharp scimitar, or an Omar Sharif in long cloak and mustache with potions that could drive me crazy? Who knows what else could happen on a journey like that. I shivered in anticipation.

A voice I did not recognize began to speak in sonorous tones ... "The River Nile on which we travel," the voice began "is principally sourced by two great rivers - the Blue Nile and the White. Although the Blue Nile flows fewer miles than her milky colored sister, her darker waters carry more of the silt that gives life to Egypt's dry sand dunes, and turns them into fertile plains with floods.

Now that, I thought, could be the perfect place to play our board game. I imagined the two of us perched on a ledge above the waterfall, sending our gallant explorers out to find the very things that we were watching. There would be little point in employing zoologists or botanists though, for the land was sterile and occupied by wandering Bedouin tribes.

In fact, I shouldn't suppose they'd welcome missionaries either, so I'd likely settle for an ethnologist to understand their cultures instead. I was beginning to understand the significance of the board game my friend had bought in Monte Carlo. I imagined what it would be like to be playing Source of the Nile with Livingstone himself, when Stanley wandered by. Would we complete the game while we sipped the exotic nectar that the local natives brewed from local jungle fruit, or would my companion rise immediately, and extend a hand to the one uttering those immortal words of "Doctor Livingstone, I presume." How bizarre is that? The only two Europeans for a thousand miles in any direction meet in the heart of the African jungle.

And the one waits to be introduced to the other? An interesting question while I digress. Could the source of a river be the lake it flows from, or the rivers that feed that lake's headwaters. I was to learn that the latter was the case.

While these days there is general agreement regarding the twin sources of the River Nile, this was the cause of considerable acrimony in Victorian Times . One participant in the debate was John Hanning Speke, an officer in the British Indian Army born in 1827 , and who made three exploratory expeditions to discover the answer the local inhabitants already knew. I often wonder what the native people made of those white strangers who arrived dressed in solar hats and Egyptian suits. Did they appear as bizarre to them, as an extra-terrestrial being might seem to me? I'd love to know. I fear I likely never shall.

A further query I have is how well they would have performed when playing the Source of the Nile board game. They were hard-nosed explorers. Would they share the action with ethnologists, journalists and missionaries? I suppose these things are locked into the mists of time too.

The Victorian explorer John Hanning Speke was born at Orleigh Court, Buckland Brewer near Bideford, North Devon on 4th May 1827 . In 1844, he was commissioned into the British army and posted to India, where he served under Sir Colin Campbell during the First Anglo-Sikh War. Speke spent his leave exploring the Himalayan Mountains and Mount Everest, and even once crossed into Tibet. No doubt this inspired him to spend a lifetime exploring other unfamiliar places.

In 1854 at age twenty-seven Speke made his first voyage to Africa, joining in an expedition to Somalia led by one Richard Burton who was already quite well-known and six years older. The latter was a British geographer, explorer , translator , writer, soldier, orientalist, cartographer , ethnologist , spy , linguist, poet, fencer and diplomat. He was well-known for his travels to Asia, Africa and the Americas, as well as his extraordinary knowledge of different languages and cultures.

It's said he spoke twenty-nine European, Asian and African languages, which could be something of a record.

Their expedition did not go well. The party was attacked and both Burton and Speke were badly wounded. Speke was captured and stabbed several times with spears before he was able to free himself and escape. Burton escaped with a javelin impaling both his cheeks. Speke returned to England to recover, and then served in the Crimean War with distinction. In 1856, Speke and Burton decided to revisit East Africa to find the Great Lakes, which they hoped would lead their expedition to the source of the Nile itself. The journey was extremely strenuous.

Both men fell ill from a variety of tropical diseases. Speke became temporarily deaf after a beetle crawled into his ear, and he tried to remove it with a knife. He also later went temporarily blind. Following a hard journey, Speke and Burton became the first Europeans to reach Lake Tanganyika - although Speke, being still partly blind at this point, could not clearly see the lake. The men heard tales of a second lake in the area. With Burton now too ill to make the journey, Speke went on alone and found the lake, which he christened Lake Victoria in honor of the British Queen. It was this lake that eventually proved to be a clue to the origin of the White Nile. However by then much of the expedition's scientific equipment had been lost, and so vital questions about the height and extent of the lake could not be answered.

Speke returned to England before Burton could recover. On 8 May 1859 he claimed in a speech to the Royal Geographical Society that he had discovered the source of the Nile. This caused a rift between him and Burton, who had expected to make a joint announcement. A further rift occurred when Speke was chosen to lead a subsequent expedition instead of Burton. They did however present joint papers to the Royal Geographical Society on 13 June 1859, regarding their second expedition. The next year, Speke set off for Uganda with a fresh exploring companion named James Augustus Grant.

Both were now aged thirty-three. After they arrived there, Grant went north, while Speke continued on his journey towards the west. After reaching Lake Victoria on 28th July 1862, he traveled around it until he found a river he assumed to be the White Nile flowing out of it, and stumbled over the Ripon Falls. He sailed down the river to be reunited with Grant.

When he reached Khartoum, he sent a celebrated telegram to London saying "The Nile is settled". Case closed, or so he thought. Burton did not agree with Speke. He claimed that since Speke had not followed the waters from the place where they flowed out of Lake Victoria to Gondokoro, it was not proven that they were in fact the White Nile. The two men were due to argue this out before the Geographical Section of the British Association in Bath on 18 September 1864. However Speke died that same morning from a self-inflicted gunshot wound, while hunting deer at Neston Park in Wiltshire. An inquest concluded that his death was accidental, although the thought of suicide has appealed to others.

Bearing in mind however, that the fatal wound was just below Speke's armpit, this seems unlikely. Speke was buried in Dowlish Wake - the ancestral home of the Speke family in Somerset. So we will likely never know the truth of the conundrum, and whether he discovered the origin of the River Nile, or not for sure.

After my dear friend and I were reunited in Northern Ethiopia, we began a 4,900 kilometer journey from the source of the Blue Nile to the Mediterranean Sea. Ours was a trip of remarkable color and contrast. We traveled from the lush green mountainous regions of Northern Ethiopia and past the dry grasslands of Sudan, before curving lazily through the Egyptian desert, past its fertile Nile Delta and on out to the sea.

Every evening we lay on the deck of our Felucca sailing craft with lanteen sails flapping idly overhead, as we sought some respite from the day's heat. After the night breezes came, we'd light a lantern and play The Source of the Nile until dawn. The captain of our little craft Mohammed was a swarthy fellow of few words. However sometimes he joined us for a game or two with the ship's mate. It took some time (and a few gin and tonics I may add) to convince him of the merits of discovering places he had already visited before. Ethiopia, where our adventure began, is an entirely landlocked nation with a rich and colorful history dating back more than 3,000 years. Legends of King Solomon and the Queen of Sheba, of the Ark of the Covenant and of the Axumite Kingdom abound, and its history is a woven tapestry of mystery and intrigue.

Today, it is a melting pot of diverse cultures practicing different religions and customs. Curiously, it remains the only African country never to have been colonized by a European nation. We set off from Little Abbai - the mountain stream that is the unassuming sacred source of the mighty Blue Nile. It soon joins the Blue Nile's hydrological source Lake Tana, where our vessel wove its way amongst a scattering of islands. Many of these were the sites of 15th Century monasteries, that were decorated with dazzling religious murals.

Once past the cascading spectacle of the Blue Nile Falls - or Tis Isat as the locals call it - we transferred to rafts for an adrenalin thrill amidst the roaring rapids of the breathtaking Blue Nile Gorge. Along the way we noticed an abundance of wildlife on cliffs said to be a mile high. This included monkeys, mountain cats and a varied assortment of bird life. A myriad of tribes such as the Gumuz, Mande, Berta, Borano and Welo people also make the Gorge their home, many of whom have seldom glimpsed a white face.

After that, the river became more peaceful. We followed sweeping flows through the foothills of the Gojam Mountains past small villages of cone-shaped huts. These settlements are free of modern communications, and so life there has remained unchanged since time immemorial.

The graceful women still fetch clean water in their gouras - empty rinds of giant fruit - while the men still hunt leopards with their spears. Ah! What a paradise unspoiled. What a vision of the Garden of Eden as it may once have been! After we transferred to a second Felucca in calmer water, the River's path continued on into the Sudan, where people have lived along the Nile for more than nine-thousand years in fortified mud-brick villages along the banks. The population comprises over six hundred different ethnic groups speaking more than four hundred languages and dialects. Sudan is the largest country in Africa, and is dominated by the Nile and her many tributaries. We trans-shipped again, this time to kayaks, to thread our way through Dinder National Park. This is among the largest African national parks and hosts an exceptional diversity of wildlife including antelope, lion, ostrich, wart hog and numerous bird species.

Elephants and giraffes have also been seen roaming the grassland reserve.

The flow of the Blue Nile is impeded at the Roseires Dam, which is the first of many obstacles we would encounter on our trip towards to the sea. It comprises a concrete buttress dam one kilometer wide with a maximum height of sixty eight meters, and buttressed by earth dams on either side between four and eight kilometers long. The dam was finished in 1966, trapping 290 square meters of water originally intended for irrigation purposes. A 280-megawatt hydro-generator was installed in 1971. The wall-heightening project now underway should be complete in 2013.