Giving Back to the Community Created from Commissioner Leonard Armato's vision and belief that the Tour and its players should dedicate themselves to the community, AVPCares was created in 2002 to serve as the AVP's charitable arm. With four successful years behind it, AVPCares will continue in 2006 to conduct a series of awareness campaigns and fundraising events in an effort to support various programs and organizations that also serve to improve the lives of the youth of America. AVPCares Mission Statement To assist the AVP and its athletes with continuing its service and commitment to the Tour's communities through the creation or support of programs, events and organizations that advance the educational and social welfare opportunities (primarily health and recreational) for the area's youth, particularly those who may be economically, physically or mentally disadvantaged. Objectives To create and/or support charitable and educational programs, events or organizations. To organize, promote and/or operate fundraising programs or events in cooperation with the AVP Tour which will provide funds to charitable and educational programs, events or organizations. To coordinate the optional participation through attendance or endorsement rights of AVP athletes or AVP staff during fundraising programs or events.

Culture, tradition and socializing come together like waves to the sand at the annual Manhattan Beach Open AVP pro beach volleyball tournament. AVP stands for the Association of Volleyball Professionals, but this tournament has been around long before there was such an organization. It is such a part of this Southern California surfside city that people turn out by the thousands, sitting on towels, in beach chairs or just on the sand cheering on the pros of the game they play on these same courts the rest of the year. In fact, the sport was born on this very beach. For this event, the outer courts and much of the grandstands were free. The only tickets being were are for courtside seats. While some feel the beach and the tournament should always be free - after all, the sport was invented right here in Manhattan Beach - others like the fact they can roll up at any time and have a great seat for the weekend. In the beachside bars, the fans enjoy the setting of the Manhattan Open.

Anyone who can get down on Friday is rewarded with the ability to walk right up to a court and watch the pros only a few feet away from the action. This is one of the great pleasures of this sport. The Manhattan Open is to Manhattan Beach what the Masters is to Augusta, the Rose Bowl is to Pasadena, Wimbledon is to England. It's the sport's premier event, beach volleyball's Super Bowl, its Daytona 500. To win the Manhattan Open defines one as a true player - you haven't arrived in this sport until you've won Manhattan. In the beginning years of the Manhattan Open, the victors won dinner and a pitcher of beer at a local restaurant. Most importantly, however, they became "Kings of the Beach" for a year. Modern-day winners get a few more dollars but definitely covet being the "Kings" and now "Queens" more than a paycheck.

It has become so popular that the AVP needs to add a few more rows of seats to accommodate the fans. Added entertainment, such as testing the speed of one's volleyball, serve and slot-car racing give the event an NFL Experience type of atmosphere. Except, of course, it's on the beach. And it's Manhattan. Manhattan is such a cherished event that legendary star Sinjin Smith picked Manhattan to retire after some 25 years of action. Sinjin is a true local hero, and not just because he won Manhattan five times (more than 250 events in all).

He and onetime partner Randy Stoklos were the undisputed Kings of every beach, winning an incredible 113 of 225 tournaments. "Smith and Stoklos" were as synonymous with the beach as Montana and Rice were with football. But it was off the sand where Sinjin made his biggest mark on the sport.

Eager to earn more than dinner and beer for winning tournaments, he hired his own PR guy, began to get media attention, and, eventually, sponsors. At first, this alienated the game's traditionalists, who felt volleyball should stay true to its low-key roots. They felt otherwise when, by the early 90s, prize money was in the hundreds of thousands and beach volleyball became an Olympic sport. Sinjin was to beach volleyball what Babe Ruth was to baseball, what Arnold Palmer was to golf. A few years ago he retired and it was only appropriate that Manhattan was his final tournament.

Oddly, it wasn't on center court, where he starred for so many years, but on an outer court as darkness approached and a chilly wind began to blow. Most people who watched him all day were in the bars by this time, unaware of the historical moment that transpired just a block away. Now, however, the torch has been passed along to players like Metzger and, possibly, Gibb. It must also be pointed out that Kiraly has won Manhattan a record eight times, including an incredible four in a row from 1990-93 and his first with Smith in 1980. And they all keep the long-standing appreciation for what it means to win the Wimbledon of beach volleyball.