Food Assistance now uses a debit-like card instead of coupons or what used to be called food stamps. This is called an electronic benefits transfer card or EBT card. You may use your EBT Card at most grocery stores, supermarkets, food co-ops, and farmers' markets.The plastic card can be used to buy nutritious foods. Foods like meat and fish, vegetables and fruits, dairy products, and bread. You may not use food assistance to buy alcohol, tobacco, paper products, or pet food. Some people can qualify for Expedited Food Stamps, and get food stamps within seven calendar days. To get expedited food stamps, you must have less than $150 in monthly gross income and $100 or less in liquid assets, or have to pay more than your income and assets for monthly rent or mortgage and utilities. Some migrant or seasonal farm workers who are destitute and have less than $100 in resources may also be able to get Expedited Food Stamps. If you are issued food stamps in booklets and your food stamps get loose from the booklet cover, keep the cover. Stores cannot accept any food stamps without a booklet cover except for the $1 kind. If the cashier owes you change from a food stamp purchase, up to 99 cents of it can be in coins. Change in even dollar amounts will be given to you in $1 food stamps. Some households are required to report on their household circumstances every month. Other households are required to report changes in household circumstances when they become known. You may report changes by calling the food stamp office. However, it is better to write down the change and mail it to the office. If you are eligible for food stamps, you will be told what information to report and when to report. As mentioned before, you will be applying for food stamps for a household of people who qualify for the program. If someone in your family is not a member of the household that can get food stamps, you do not have to say anything about that person but you do have to include that person's income. When you apply, you must sign a statement saying either: Every person in the household who will get food stamps is a US citizen; OR What the immigration or naturalization status is for any household members who are not US citizens, for all those who are going to get food stamps. You must provide your Social Security number. Those who do not have a Social Security number cannot get food stamps. You must also register for work unless you are exempt. People who are not going to get food stamps do not need to give a Social Security number. It is extremely important that you report changes, so that your household gets the right amount of food stamps. If you get any extra food tamps because you have not reported the right information, you will have to pay back the value of the extra food stamps. Must the Iowa Department of Human Services Help Me In My Own Language? Yes, in most cases. Federal law and food stamp rules say the Iowa Department of Human Services (IDHS) must provide services and important notices in your language. If a language is not common in Iowa, the rules are more flexible. For people who use English, important notices should be in English. For people who use Spanish, important notices should be in Spanish. Spanish versions of notices and forms to apply for the program should be available to all who ask for them. Each Iowa Department of Human Services office should have interpreters. You should not have to bring anyone to interpret for you. What is The Resource Limit for Getting Food Assistance? Resources are things you own like your home and car as well as cash you have in the bank, stocks, or U.S. savings bonds. Not all of your resources will be counted. To get food assistance the value of your counted resources must not be more than: $2,000 for most households; $3,000 for households of one or more if at least one person is 60 years or older, or has a disability. What Kinds of Resources Can I Have and Still Be Eligible for Food Assistance? your home and the land it's on, most personal belongings, and farm or business property are not counted toward the resource limit. At least one motor vehicle per household is not counted as a resource no matter what the value of the vehicle. Other vehicles in the household may also not be counted as a resource depending on how they are used or their value. pension plans whether the funds were contributed by the employer or employee as well as tax-deferred or tax-advantage retirement accounts are not counted. This includes 401 K plans, IRA accounts, and, IPERS. NOTE : This rule is new with the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008. Food stamps can only be used for food and for plants and seeds to grow food for your household to eat. You can spend food stamps like cash at most stores that sell food. The cashier may ask you to show your food stamp ID. Sales tax cannot be charged on items bought with food stamps. Food stamps cannot be used to buy: Any nonfood item, such as pet foods; soaps, paper products, and household supplies; grooming items, toothpaste, and cosmetics Any food marketed to be heated in the store Hot foods that are ready to eat Any food that will be eaten in the store Vitamins and medicines Alcoholic beverages and tobacco