The environmentally friendly practices that go into the running of Fickle Creek Farm are many. Nutrient cycling is very important to the welfare of the farm. As no artificial chemicals are added, nutrient cycling is very useful to avoid the loss of nutrients into surface and ground water, minimizing the needs for soil additives. Via Agroforestry, b iodiversity and natural ecosystem processes are conserved . The trees on the farm add to the natural beauty, give shade for the animals and there are also trees that are great for honey production. The trees also help prevent erosion, and minimize the need to heat or cool the farm and so reduce the use of electricity. Electricity as well as water conservation is a key concern of Fickle Creek Farm. The farm focuses on the native plants in the surrounding areas, paying attention to protecting those plants and animals that were here before the farm. Keeping the balanced eco-system is important at the far. All of the vehicles on the farm run on 100% Biodiesel that is made just 35 miles away . Biodiesel is both renewable and non-polluting. Fickle Creek Farm strives to support the local economy and the local community so they sell their products as close to the farm as they can. All the animals on the farm were born within a thirty mile radius of the farm, and nothing is sold further than twenty five miles away. To find Fickle Creek Farm you should follow these directions: If you're travelling from the west via Interstate 40 east / 85 north, t ake exit 157 - Buckhorn Road. Then turn right at the top of the exit ramp heading south on Buckhorn Road. Drive 4.5 miles and look for black mailbox 4122 on the right. Opposite this mailbox turn left into a gravel drive. and bear left at the first fork. Then bear right at second fork. If you're travelling fromthe east via Interstate 40 west / 85 south, take exit 160 - Efland. Then turn left at the bottom of the exit ramp headingsouth on Mt Willing Road. Drive 3.8 miles then turn left at the stop sign onto Buckhorn Road. Drive another 1.7 miles and look for black mailbox 4122 on the right. Opposite this mailbox turn left into a gravel drive. and bear left at the first fork. Then bear right at second fork. Or if you're taking the Scenic Route From Carrboro & Chapel Hill, then get to Calvander at the intersection of Old 86 / Homestead Road / Hillsborough Rd / Dairyland Road. Go west on Dairyland Road for 6.8 miles. You'll then see Mapleview Farm Ice Cream store on the right at the intersection of Dairyland & Rocky Ridge Rd. At the end of Dairyland Road, turn right onto Orange Grove Rd and drive 0.2 miles. Turn left onto Buckhorn Road opposite the fire station and drive 2.9 miles on Buckhorn Road. On the left look for mailbox 4122. Opposite this mailbox turn left into a gravel drive. and bear left at the first fork. Then bear right at second fork. When you are on the farm road drive slowly until you reach the farm buildings. 