NetStar has several business mandates. These include providing total communication solutions, be it Web Services, Multimedia & Films, or managing Conferences & Exhibitions. NetStar is based in New Delhi, India, where Information Systems has sky-rocketed in recent years . We offer support services, and cater to the following sectors: Web Services Multimedia & Films Medical Conferences & CMEs Exhibitions & Stall Design NetStar should be your web host of choice for everything from web design, online publishing, internet marketing tools, domain names, email addresses and powerful web hosting services.

A dedicated team of technical personnel are available 24/7 at our Operations Centre. We have a 24 hours online support system & day time telephone support. To help us provide quality domain registration & management services, NetStar has combined with a leading ICANN accredited registrar. World-class domain management is provided through myorderbox, makng the entire process seamless & user friendly.

For more information, please refer to out our Domain Registration Page. Specialized web hosting is NetStar's main focus. Our specialists evaluate every requirement prior to allocating a web account. All packages are scalable - upwards or downwards, ensuring maximum protection to your investment. Our Web Servers have connections with all major carriers. Our Premium Linux & Windows Hosting options are hosted at multiple Data Centers, and come with an option of hosting in North America, or India. All plans come with an easy to use control panel and a lot of powerful features. In addition we provide dedicated email hosting through servers located at USA.

All plans include business class email with antivirus and spam protection. To know more about our Web & Email hosting plans & for sales and technical support, please visit our website www.netstarhosting.com. In addition, we are Authorised Business Associates of Rediff Business Solutions. The hosting plans boast of lightening fast speed & a powerful control panel from Ensim. Built-in antivirus and advanced spam control, are standard with the email plans. To know more about Rediff Business Solutions, check their website for yourself.

Our Web Design Department caters to customers of all sizes. Our objective is simple - to get a maximum ROI for our customers. We have a per page pricing system, so as to manage the cost of the site at all times. All technicalities of static design, dynamic design, shopping cart, forms, database etc. are dealt professionally, as and when required - with the minimum of financial or technical burden to our customer. To get your web site designed and up & running in no time, visit our Home page. Online Publishing NetStar provides online publishing solutions for books and journals. We have a ready-to-deploy engine for journals, through which journals can be online in no time, and all at a fraction of what our competitors charge.

Tools include eTOC, search, PubMed integration, online submission & more. To learn more about this exciting technology, click here. Films and Multimedia Arts Ware (a sister concern of NetStar) is in the business of Multimedia, Film & Print solutions, and has beenf since 1997. To know more about these solutions, you can visit www.artsware.net.

With the expertise that comes from successful completion of over 800 projects & hundreds of satisfied customers, you can be assured of prompt & quality service. Exhibitions and Conferences NetStar specializes in providing turnkey management of medical conferences and events. Whether you are planning to host a large international conference, a small CME or a customized stall, we can provide the right solution for you. For assistance with planning your next conference or exhibition stall, use our expertise and then just relax.

Good question, and it really all begins with Domain Name Registration. All you need do is to type in a domain name to see if it is available - your point of reference would be: www.yourcompany.com A good start point would be to check the above website to see if your domain is freely available. Here at RA Web Design, we can register or transfer a domain name for your organization at the click of a button!

Hosting Web and Email Hosting Here at RA Web Design, we can provide hosting for your site. Unlike larger hosting companies, we know our clients by name and handle their interests as we would our own, and on a high priority basis too. Client support and satisfaction remain our top priorities, so you are not just another account name and number to our staff. When you engage RA Web Design, your organizations Web Hosting Package will include: Your own Domain Name on our super-fast and reliable servers Stand-by servers in geographically separate locales, and ready to fire up in an instant if needed Unlimited Mirror domains, meaning you have as many domain names as you want to point to your main account Microsoft FrontPage 98/2000 Extensions Your own Private CGI bin Password Protected Directories Unlimited email boxes Catch all e-mail address to send non-specific e-mail messages to a specific address (for example - info@domain.com, sales@domain.com) POP3 (Incoming) e-mail (domain.com). Individual or multiple e-mail forwarding. Moderated or unmoderated mailing lists.

Quick and easy registration or transfer of your domain name. Custom Designed Sites The difference is that RA Web Design does not use off-the-shelf cookie cutter templates. No, Sir - at RA Web Design we will design your site based on your business/organization model, your identified mission statement for your site, and your target audience. Web Site Redesign RA Web Design can takeover or redesign your existing web site. We will take your existing content and design your site based on any new requirements.

RA Web Design realizes that as technology grows, so likely will your web site needs. We can add to, maintain or completely redesign your site. Web Site Maintenance Perhaps you are just looking for someone to maintain your site?

RA Web Design can provide your organization with weekly/monthly/quarterly site maintenance or we can set up your site with special coding that will enable you and your staff to edit your site through your web browser.

Editorial Software is different from what is usually offered in web design studios - and it's all down to our design team . Websites that we create are adapted to your functional and user needs and also to the legal requirements which are gradually being established on the worldwide web. Our high quality web pages Remembering that the main purpose of a corporate web page is to be accessed by the maximum number of users, something clever has to happen at the front end of the planning cycle. Here at Editorial Software we ensure that every detail of the websites we design for all our clients is technically correct and fully representative of the clients' business activities.

Because web pages are not just an advertisement for their business, they also represent their company products and services. We realize that it is a means of communicating directly with potential clients. Editorial Software designed websites are always put together following very strict implementation rules. We aim to attract the end user who will visit the website and buy from your portal. We achieve this by using: Simple menu and link structures.

Graphic design for special-needs people. Standard XSLT/XML web code structure. Common look and feel in all Internet browsers: Internet Explorer, Mozilla, Safari, etc. Why not ask for more information about quality web design of Editorial Software? Adaptation of websites to standard software products Products created by Editorial Software work perfectly on standard web pages, and that means for all browsers. Quite often, our clients have technical staff that manage and update their own corporate website, although they contract the integrated solutions offered by Editorial Software for software implementation. This focus of responsibility results in a significant savings for both parties.

Editorial Software provides solutions, if that's what our client wants during implementation phases of a software product for the client internet server. We do this by: Functional testing and final correction of possible errors. Software installation and database creation.

Creation of web pages to interact with the software, thereby maintaining the graphic design of the clients' current website.

Here at Kudos Web Solutions, we use a carefully structured design process to ensure that all of our projects meet the client specification, and of course their budget restraints as well. When we review the specification, which later feeds into the quotation, we often suggest practical amendments, but not without first talking to you, the customer. This keeps you informed of your costs, as well as alerting you to the envisaged roll out as we see it. Our intention is to have your new site developed using the following basic steps: 1. Design Specification At the commencement of each project, one of our experienced team members engages in discussions with your nominated person. The objective is to obtain a clear understanding of what the client requires.

This in turn enables us to build up a technical design specification. This will culminate in an initial quotation of the anticipated cost of the project. 2 System Design Once the specification has been agreed, preliminary designs and graphical layouts are produced. A general layout for the site is then put together. The design of how other more technical areas (e.g. database design) of the web site is also formulated at this stage 3. Implementation Building and delivering the final solution, accommodating late additional requirements or implementing final changes including suggestions from the user acceptance testing. 4. Roll out The fully developed solution is made live across the Internet. The final solution is tuned and tested to ensure that everything is functioning, as the client desires.

What Type of Website Do I Need? Not everyone is the same which is why we offer a range of different options for your new website. The main types of are Static, Dynamic and eCommerce. To explore the different options please click one of the links on the right of this page.

Cd Mile Fate! One hundred thousand welcomes to my site in honor of the Goddess Brighid! I am a Celtic Reconstructionist Pagan of Irish heritage, which dates back to 1706 in the New World, and that of Eastern Band Mississippi Choctaw.

Here I have tried to provide interesting and informative links to sites about Brighid. There are also pages about my devotions and spirituality to Her as a CRP and pictures of my seasonal altars dedicated to Her for offerings and meditation. Of course, my kitties have their own cozy corner as they deserve a special space for themselves.

My intense political life demands its own voice on the site as it is also an integral part of my love for and having been claimed by Herself. If you are interested in this traditional, Gaelic, pagan spirituality and way of life, the following links will give you an excellent introduction. This essay on Witch Vox was written by various CR members and these two articles in The Green Egg are interviews with the founders of Celtic Reconstructionism, Kathryn Price NicDhana and Kym Lambert ni Dhoireann. Here are two more sources at Wikipedia and another explanation of CR by Kym. For a much more detailed study of the CR path, there is our outstanding CR FAQ! =) This project is one which took several years to put together through the research of the CR founders, dedicated scholars and practitioners.

There is an incredible recommended reading list for further Celtic studies as well as the on topics of theology, ritual, ethics and basic to intermediate questions. The link for The CR FAQ can be found on the sidebar, along with the links to our very informative interactive LiveJournal and MySpace communities. Best of all, instead of printing out all of the FAQ pages and having carry around all those loose papers, you can now have The CR FAQ for your very own! =) Thanks to the very hard work of several CR elders, the online FAQ is now a book! To order, please click here. This is not only a Celtic Reconstructionist website, but also one dedicated to the Goddess Brighid. I emphasize the word Goddess before Her name because I believe that She is Person in and of Herself and is not a reflection of an archetypal goddess as in dualistic pagan paths. I believe that She is an individual Deity as are all of the other Gods and Goddesses from any culture.

Yes, I consider my CR path to be my faith and I pray to Her and give Her offerings as much as possible. She is my Matron Goddess. Although I honor all of the Celtic Deities, I have from the beginning of my pagan journey which began in the spring of 1995, been drawn most especially to Brighid. Over the years, this has become stronger and increasingly important.

This naturally progressed into finding more ways in which I could honor Her. So, in the spring of 2006, I became a Flametender for Her in an online group with other women firetenders devoted to Goddess Brighid. This has been a wonderful experience for me and I cherish those days in the months when Her Flame is passed to me from another woman and I light it within my own home during my sunset to sunset shift. I began wanting an Order of Flamekeepers where the women to whom I passed Her Flame were on the same CR path as myself. We have begun this project in our CR community under the inspiration of Kathryn Price NicDhana who is sworn to Brighid and a Flametender for many years.

If you are a woman who is practicing the CR spirituality or very much interested in doing so and have special devotion to Brighid, please follow this link to our LiveJournal community of Brighidwomen. The Order is in its early formation and will be a collective effort in its foundation stages: http://community.livejournal.com/brighidwomen/profile Enjoy your visit here and come back often for updates. The Political page is still very much under construction.

There will also be a Brighid resource page, as well as essays about keeping Her Flame, more poetry and praises in Her honor, my Flametenders blog and more updated altar pictures. Please don't forget to sign the lovely guestbook!