Although the MGB is a ruggedly built and relatively simple sports car, it can present some restoration challenges for the amateur restorer. Being the best-selling British sports car in America up to 1980, there are plenty of MGB's available for restoring. In fact you could find one in your local classified advertisements, in an internet auction, just happen to spot one parked under a tree near your house which could be your dream. In any case, unless you buy an example that has been renovated from the ground up, you are likely to meet up with some of the common weaknesses of the car. In that case, you either need to either apply your own skills, or find reputable help. Engine The B-series engine is actually one of the sturdiest around, and, with the exception of general wear and tear on high mileage cars, it's likely to be in far condition if the car is still a runner. When you start it up, expect to hear audible rocker noise from the top end of the engine. In fact, an absence of the reassuring ticking noise may mean that overworked rockers have been over-tightened to hide visible wear. Rumbling from the bottom end means a worn crank and main bearings though. A chattering timing chain is another sign of wear, but fortunately timing chains can be replaced quite quickly, and with the engine still in the car. The presence of water in the oil is a sure sign of a blown head gasket and potentially a cracked or warped head too. If the oil inside the valve cover is frothing at idle, this indicates severe bore and / or valve guide wear. Oil leaks are common near the timing chain and gearbox bell housing covers, the drain hole, and the tappet side covers. When on the road, remember to look for proper oil pressure of 50psi in fourth gear with the engine warmed up properly. A significantly lower reading might mean either a faulty oil pressure sending unit, a worn oil pump, or worn engine bearings. Running hot indicates a tired water pump, a blocked radiator, or even burned exhaust valves. The safest bet is to have a professional shop replace an entire worn MGB engine with a rebuilt unit. A properly rebuilt and installed MGB engine could last for 100,000 miles when properly maintained. Transmission and Drive Train MGBs used a three synchromesh transmission up to and including 1967, and this is the unitmost likely to give trouble as it is less robust (and spares parts are hard to find too). On all MGB transmissions versions noises and grindings are caused by worn bearings, gear teeth, or thrust-washers. Also look for the gear lever jumping out of second or third gear when the clutch is not engaged. More than an inch or so of play in the clutch pedal indicates a worn master or slave cylinder that will require immediate replacement. Clutch replacement is best accomplished through the removal of the engine and transmission. Not an easy task for an amateur to do. Faulty over-drive transmissions may be suffering from clogged filters, low transmission fluid level or a number of electrical faults. If early overdrive transmissions fail to come in or out of third or fourth gear, a worn solenoid switch may be your culprit. The rear axle on an MGB may leak to due faulty seals, a clogged vent, or just careless overfilling. A slight clonking as the axle is engages is actually acceptable, but excessive noise will require attention to the rear differential. Worn half-shafts can be detected by coming on and off the power several times at about 30mph, while listening for excessive clonking from the rear end. You should also check the u-bolts for tightness, as loose u-bolts will cause the rear end to wander on turns. Be sure to also check the leaf springs for signs of wearing, sagging, or even cracking. Suspension and Steering The best indicators of front suspension wear are excessive body lurch on corners, and a tendency for the car to generally wander. Bounce the front end of the car above each front wheel to test the strength of the hydraulic dampers. It is also a good idea to jack up the front end and spin each front wheel to check for problems with the bearings. At the same time you should also rock or shake each wheel in a vertical plane to check for worn king-pins. There should ideally be no more than one inch of play - with the car stationary - on the steering wheel. More play than this indicates a worn universal steering joint. If the steering doesn't center while at speed, the king pins are likely to blame. When inspecting wire wheels, look for loose or broken spokes. While a professional can tighten loose spokes, broken spokes are best addressed by replacing the entire wheel with a good used or new replacement. Wire wheel and hub splines must also be inspected for wear. Worn splines are indicated by clonking at the wheels on acceleration. Of course extremely splines mean you are going nowhere fast! MGB steel wheels, often referred to as rostyle wheels, require far less maintenance, and are practically indestructible. The intricately painted pattern is often spoiled in a misguided attempt to repaint the wheel. While paint templates are available to make painting easier, the best bet it to take the time to carefully clean and mask off the pattern, and then prime and repaint. This is well worth the extra effort, and you can rest assured that your fellow MGB enthusiasts will notice the time you spent. Early MGB's had a simple steel wheel and small hubcap that, while difficult to find, are fairly easy to maintain. Brakes Worn brake pads and shoes, or seized calipers can cause an MGB to pull to one side during braking. Worn rotors can be turned or replaced at minimal cost. In fact all of the mechanical braking components are relatively inexpensive and readily available too . Check for faulty hydraulics by repeatedly depressing the brake pedal and seeing if the pedal eventually goes all the way to the floor. Brake master cylinders can be rebuilt, but it maybe worth having a professional do the job, since brake fluid is your paint jobs absolute worst enemy. If the brake-warning light comes on when the brake pedal is depressed as hard as possible, then the rear brakes are likely leaking at the wheel cylinders. In some instances, oil from the rear differential can contaminate the rear brake drums (especially if the rear end is not properly maintained) In this case, a complete brake rebuilt on the rear end is required, while the breather on the rear axle should be cleaned and / or replaced. Body The MGB sheet-metal body is basically well built and designed, but like any other steel-bodied car is prone to rust - particularly in regions with extreme winter weather. The sills (lower interior body area between wheels) provide most of the MGB structural support, and serious rust problems here go beyond a cosmetic issue to become a question of safety. Extremely rotten sills can cause an MGB to actually sag in the middle. A good way to check for this is to look at the vertical door gaps. If the gap is tight at the top and wide at the bottom then a problem is indicated. This is a particular problem for MGB roadsters, as they have no fixed roof for addition strength and support. While rusted sills need not necessarily be a death sentence for an MGB, they should only be repaired by a professional. The front fenders rust at the base next to the sill. Rust will often appear around the wheel arches and at the point where the fenders meet the main part of the body. Rust also occurs at the inner portion of the fenders, and on the front apron under the bumper. Doors can rust badly along their bottom edges too. Another flaw to look out for is a crack in the door that appears just under the quarter-window due to a structural design flaw (and the tendency of drivers to pull on the quarter window when closing the door). You should also take the time to examine the underside of the car and the floorboards - especially below the dash. Many owners of MGBs allowed rain to fall inside their cars, mistakenly thinking the process of evaporation would deal with the moisture. This was not true! The moist conditions tended to remain under the factory-installed mats, and remained there until floorboards rotted through. Also pay special attention to the jacking points and suspension mounting points. At the rear of an MGB the fenders tend to rust where the inner and outer fenders meet and where the sheet metal is beaded at the top of the fender. Rust often appears at the base of the tail lamps, as well as the inside of the trunk.. Check the trunk floor and lid for rust that often appears near the trunk lid supports, and around the luggage racks. An obvious sign of damage to a trunk lid is a crimp in the metal near the support, where a previous owner improperly attempted to close the trunk without first depressing the latch on the support. Fortunately late-1980's new body panels (in fact a brand new MGB body shell) can be purchased from the UK distributors. These body parts utilize the original tooling from the MGB factory, so while more expensive ensure the best fit and finish. Less expensive aftermarket body parts are also available from other manufacturers, and sometimes you get lucky and find good fenders, hoods, and trunk lids at import salvage yards. You get what you pay for when it comes to professional bodywork. Ensuring that panels fit correctly and remain aligned requires an experienced touch. Quality repairs are not always inexpensive, but you will appreciate the investment you make in this area, each and everytime you admire your restored MGB. Interior The interiors of many MGBs have been neglected, or have been subjected to some creative modification s. In the best case ,your restoration project should have a complete, but well-worn, original interior. In America, only early MGBs left dealers with leather seats. By the 1968, MGBs had rather poorly executed vinyl seating, padded dashes and thin interior panels. Carpeting was also fairly minimal and generally less than luxurious. While American cars were fitted with molded padded vinyl dashes, UK cars kept their original metal dashes with updated gauges, knobs, and switches, - much nicer looking, but less safe, according to the experts. On most unrestored MGB's expect to spend a considerable amount of time and or money bringing the interior to original (or better) condition. Currently, leather seating and panel kits are available as are more plush carpet kits too. A quality wooden inlay dash can upgrade the appearance of the US spec, although it will deviate from the original design. You can even upgrade your steering wheel, but remember that factory-installed wheels have a large diameter because MGB's don't have power steering. An unrestored car is also likely to need a new convertible top. The vinyl tops tend to be torn from improper folding and storage. The top frames are ruggedly designed though, and even those that do not raise and lower smoothly can be cured with some oil. For just a few hundred dollars you can get a new, high-quality aftermarket vinyl top with a zip out rear window. Only those with experience and patience should install an MGB soft top by themselves. To ensure a quality fit, trust an expert. Which MGB to Buy? Since you will be investing a considerable amount of time, energy, and most importantly money in an MGB restoration, it important to have an idea of the value of the car when the work is complete. Of course, this depends greatly on the quality of the restoration work, which is not always proportionate to the amount of money you have spent. An unscrupulous mechanic can charge you a fortune and not perform the work correctly or even perform it at all (make sure to get documentation and receipts for all work done). In general, chrome bumper MGBs (1963-1974) with overdrive transmissions remain the most sought after and therefore hold the highest value. Furthermore, they tend to increase in value at a higher rate than the later rubber bumper MGBs. Among the chrome bumper cars the earliest years 1963-1965 tend to be the most valuable. These early MGBs are terribly simple machines, with little or no add-ons to the engine like pollution control or suspect British Leyland technology . Early MGBs are considered to be the true essence of the car without pin striping, safety bumpers, or even a radio! The styling of the grilles on chrome-bumper MGB's evolved over 1963-1974 from vertically slatted grills, to recessed grills and culminating with a rather cheaply manufactured black egg crates. People have their own personal preferences with respect to grills, but make sure to keep it original, as an incorrect grill on your MGB will draw criticism from enthusiasts, and reduce the return on your investment. The chrome bumpers themselves also underwent minor changes with different over-riders being added, and even a split rear bumper on the 1970 models. While just a subtle variation on the theme, the split rear bumper is generally considered desirable and enthusiasts actively seek out these cars. Less desirable are the large black-overriders that were mounted on 1974 MGB's just prior to the changeover to all-rubber front and rear bumpers. These are easily removed and replaced with chrome overriders, or none at all. 1975-1980 MGB's are easily identified by the controversial black rubber bumpers on the front and the rear of the cars. 1975 MGB's are considered by some to be the low point for the model. The execution of the heavy steel reinforced bumpers was not initially well thought-out and threw the balance of the car. This was made worse by the lack of suspension sway bars. By 1976, they had finally gotten it just about right, and the 1977 cars also featured an updated more modern dashboard. However pollution control equipment was strangling the little four-cylinder engine further, limiting performance. In 1979, the MGB Limited Edition was offered with special body striping, alloy wheels, and subtle interior upgrades. Of all the rubber bumper cars, this is probably the one to look for. MGB GTs are also wonderful variations on the MGB theme. They offer all the pleasures of driving the classic car with better protection from the elements. Often, the interiors of GT models are better preserved too, so restoring one could save the owner some money. If you live in a warm climate though, be careful, because they can get toasty in July! Which One's For Me? The right MGB is a personal decision. Is the car intended to be a casual weekend toy, a show stopper, or an investment? There is a range of MGB's available to satisfy just about everybody! Buy yours today. You won't regret it. 