Skeet shooting is one of the three major types of competitive shotgun shooting at targets . The event is in part meant to simulate the action of bird hunting. There are several types of Skeet, including one with Olympic status often called Olympic Skeet or International Skeet, and many with only national recognition. The shooter shoots from 7 positions on a semicircle with a radius of 21 yards (19 m), and an 8th position halfway between stations 1 and 7. There are two houses that hold devices known as "traps" that launch the targets, one at each corner of the semicircle. The traps launch the targets to a point 15 feet above ground and 18 feet outside of station 8. One trap launches targets from 10 feet above the ground ("high" house) and the other launches it from 3 feet above ground ("low" house). At stations 1 and 2, the shooter shoots at single targets launched from the high house and then the low house, then shoots a double where the two targets are launched simultaneously. At stations 3, 4, and 5 the shooter shoots at single targets launched from the high house and then the low house. At stations 6 and 7, the shooter shoots at single targets launched from the high house and then the low house, then shoots a double. At station 8, the shooter shoots one high target and one low target. The shooter must re-shoot his first missed target, or if no targets are missed, must shoot his 25th shell at the low house station 8. This 25th shot was once referred to as the shooter's option as he was able to take it where he preferred. Now, to speed up rounds in competition, the shooter must shoot the low 8 twice for a perfect score. 1974 Chicago Coin Twin Skeet Shoot Twin Skeet Shoot uses Chicago Coin introduced in 1974 (exact date unknown) featured twin Dale style gun (not a light gun) which can be played by 2 players in 8-track tape game with an electronic target sound. One in the series of three 1970s twin rifle games including Chicago Coin'sTwin Rifle (1971) and Midway'sTwin Pirate (1974). unlimited shots in a timed game, one target appears and moves and the quickest and more accurate player gets the points. It has a black light. Twin SkeetShoot is not as quick as Twin Rifle though because Skeet Shoot uses an optical illusion to make the target look like it is moving,even after being shoot. Unlike the Twin Rifle which puts up a new target after the current target is hit making it much faster and wild, especially in a two player mode. Federal agencies recall or issue warnings about hundreds of products every year in order to prevent injury to consumers . Most recalls are carried out voluntarily by manufacturers under the supervision of the Federal agency responsible for the product category involved. Product hazards may occur because of design flaws, production defects, new scientific information about dangers from materials previously thought safe, accidental contamination, tampering, unforeseen misuse of products, or failure to meet safety standards. CPSC regulates the safety of toys such as household products, furniture,appliances and lawnmowers; recreational equipment; and some off-road vehiclessuch as snowmobiles. The agency recalls approximately 250 products a year,almost all the recalls handled voluntarily by manufacturers under agency'ssupervision. Depending onthe kindof product, recall or warning information sometimes may be included withbilling notices from stores or with replacement parts, or appear on posters indoctors' offices, day care centers, stores, and repair shops. Recalls are publicized to consumers through the media.