Brief History In 1879 California adopted its state constitution which among many other programs created the State Board of Equalization and the State Controller, which administered all tax programs. In 1929, the state legislature created the office of the Franchise Tax Commissioner to administer California s Bank and Corporation Franchise Tax Act. In 1950, California abolished the office of the Franchise Tax Commissioner and created the Franchise Tax Board as it exists today.

California State income Tax is the main income for the government. It is very important for all citizens to pay their income tax properly because the money generated through income tax is spent for their citizens only. Different countries follow different systems in collecting income tax from their citizens but in the United States of America, California State is one of the important commercial states. This is one of the best income tax revenue providing states for the United States of America.

The board is composed of the California State Controller, the chair of the California Board of Equalization and the director of the California Department of Finance. The chief administrative official is the executive officer of the Franchise Tax Board.

The California state income tax system is difficult to understand, but profitable. To understand the income tax calculation, a sample of the method of income tax calculation is provided. In fact, the government expects all of its citizens to pay the income tax, which means that they must earn that much to protect their family as well as the government. All the persons, who are earning more than seven thousand five hundred and fifty dollars, should pay the income tax.

It is very easy for the regular salaried persons to pay their income tax through their offices and companies. Generally, these organizations collect the income tax from all the taxpayers and pay them directly to the Franchise Tax Board. In the California state income tax paying system, there are six stages in the percentage of income tax from ten to thirty five percent Ten percent of the income tax for one to seven thousand five hundred and fifty dollars. Fifteen percent income tax is collected for the amount from seven thousand five hundred and fifty one dollars to thirty thousand and six hundred and fifty dollars. For income above thirty thousand six hundred and fifty to seventy four thousand two hundred dollars, twenty percent of income tax should be paid. From seventy four thousand and two hundred and one to hundred and fifty four thousand eight hundred dollars, the income tax is fixed as twenty eight percent. Thirty three percent of income tax has to be paid for the income from hundred and fifty four thousand eight hundred and one to three hundred and thirty six thousand five hundred and fifty dollars.

For the income above three hundred and thirty six thousand six hundred and fifty five dollars, thirty five percent of income tax is collected. This income tax procedure is applicable for the individuals. When a person is filling his income tax return jointly with his spouse, they may get some additional concessions in the income tax payment. Different slabs are fixed for the widow or widower and head of household.

PERSONAL INCOME TAX The Franchise Tax Board collects personal state income taxes from California residents on their income from all sources. Meanwhile, non-residents are taxed on their California-based income. In recent years, the FTB income tax collects more than $49.9 billion annually.

2008 California Tax Rates and Exemptions For the period from July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2008,The rate of inflation in California, was 5.0%. The 2008 personal income tax brackets are indexed by this amount. Corporate tax rates Entity type Tax rate Corporations other than banks and financials 8.84% Banks and financials 10.84% Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) rate 6.65% S corporation rate 1.5% S corporation bank and financial rate 3.5% Individual tax rates The maximum rate for individuals is 9.3% The AMT rate for individuals is 7% The Mental Health Services Tax Rate is 1% for taxable income in excess of $1,000,000. Exemption credits Filing Status/Qualification Exemption amount Married/Registered Domestic Partner (RDP) filing jointly and qualifying widow(er) $198 Single, married/RDP filing separately, and head of household $99 Dependent $309 Blind $99 Age 65 or older $99 Phaseout of exemption credits When applying the phaseout amount, apply the $6/$12 amount to each exemption credit, but do not reduce the credit below zero. If a personal exemption credit is less than the phaseout amount, do not apply the excess against a dependent exemption credit. Higher-income taxpayers' exemption credits are reduced as follows: Filing status Reduce each credit by: For each: Federal AGI exceeds: Single $6 $2,500 $163,187 Married/RDP filing separately $6 $1,250 $163,187 Head of household $6 $2,500 $244,785 Married/RDP filing jointly $12 $2,500 $326,379 Qualifying widow(er) $12 $2,500 $326,379 Standard deductions The standard deduction amounts for: Filing status Deduction amount Single and married/RDP filing separately $3,692 Married/RDP filing jointly, head of household and qualifying widow(er) $7,384 The minimum standard deduction for dependents $900 Nonrefundable Renter's credit This nonrefundable, non-carryover credit for renters is available for: Single and married/RDP filing separately with a California AGI of $34,936 or less. The credit is $60.

Married/RDP filing jointly, head of household, and qualifying widow(er) with a California AGI of $69,872 or less. The credit is $120. Miscellaneous credits Qualified senior head of household credit 2% of California taxable income Maximum California AGI of $63,831 Maximum credit of $1,203 Joint custody head of household credit/dependent parent credit 30% of net tax Maximum credit of $393 AMT exemption Filing status Amount Married/RDP filing jointly and qualifying widow(er) $80,017 Single and head of household $60,014 Married/RDP filing separately, estates, and trusts $40,007 AMT exemption phaseout Filing status Amount Married/RDP filing jointly and qualifying widow(er) $300,065 Single and head of household $225,050 Married/RDP filing separately, estates, and trusts $150,031 FTB cost recovery fees Fee type Fee Bank and corporation filing enforcement fee $203 Bank and corporation collection fee $352 Personal income tax filing enforcement fee $119 Personal income tax collection fee $187 The personal income tax fees apply to individuals, partnerships, and limited liability companies that are classified as partnerships. The bank and corporation fees apply to banks, corporations, and limited liability companies that are classified as corporations. Interest does not accrue on these cost recovery fees.

Last minute tips in paying your taxes Try ReadyReturn, FTB's completed tax return program. Taxpayers who used the single filing status last year, had one employer, claimed no dependents, and took the standard deduction generally qualify. Use e-file and direct deposit to save time, paper, and stamps, and get your tax refund back fast - generally within seven days. FTB's ReadyReturn and CalFile programs are the state's no- cost, easy-to-use e-file options. April 15 is not the last day to file.However, taxes owed must be paid by Tuesday, April 15. California taxpayers get an automatic extension until October 15 to file their tax returns. If you owe tax, consider using Web Pay, which allows you to authorize a payment from your bank account to satisfy a return balance due or extension payment. Pay on or before April 15 to avoid penalties and interest.

You can also schedule your estimate payments up to a year in advance with Web Pay. Visit FTB's website to set up a payment plan, if you owe tax and cannot pay. Most taxpayers who owe less than $25,000 and can repay the tax within five years generally qualify. FTB may request information from you regarding your tax return at any time within the California statute of limitations period, which is generally four years from the return's due date.So, after you file, be sure to keep a copy of your state tax return and all supporting records.

Conclusion: Tax payers should think that it is their responsibility and bounden duty to pay their income tax regularly, since, the money is compulsorily needed for the betterment of the people of the United States. To help its citizens, the Franchise Tax Board has organized online paying facility also for their tax payers for the ease of filing.