The primary duty of the president of the United States is to make sure that all U.S. laws are carried out and that the federal government is run effectively. Although the president may not introduce new legislation - that's the duty of Congress - he does wield veto power over all bills that are approved by the legislature. In addition, the president has the weighty role of commander in chief of the armed forces.

As the nation's chief executive, the president oversees foreign policy, making treaties with foreign nations and appointing ambassadors to other nations and to the United Nations. He also appoints members of the Cabinet, as well as Supreme Court justices and federal judges. Day-To-Day Governance The president, with Senate approval, appoints a Cabinet, which oversees specific facets of government. Members of the Cabinet include - but are not limited to - the vice president, the presidential chief of staff, the U.S trade representative, and the heads of all the major federal departments, such as the secretaries of state, defense, the Treasury and the attorney general, who leads the Justice Department. The president, along with his Cabinet, helps set the tone and policy for the entire executive branch and how the laws of the United States are enforced.

Legislative Duties The president is expected to address the full Congress at least once a year to report on the State of the Union. Although the president does not have the power to enact laws, he does work with Congress to introduce new legislation and carries a great deal of power, particularly with members of his own party, to lobby for legislation he favors. If Congress should enact a law that the president opposes, he may veto the legislation before it can become law. Congress may override the presidential veto with a two-thirds majority of those in attendance in both the Senate and House of Representatives at the time the override vote is taken.

Foreign Policy The president is authorized to make treaties with foreign nations, pending Senate approval. He also appoints ambassadors to other countries and to the United Nations, though those, too, require Senate confirmation. The president and his administration represent the interests of the United States abroad; as such, he often meets with, entertains and develops a relationship with other heads of state. Commander in Chief The president serves as commander in chief of the nation's armed forces. In addition to his powers over the military, the president has the authority to deploy those forces at his discretion, with congressional approval. He may also ask Congress to declare war on other nations. Salary and Perks Being president is not without its perks.

The president earns $400,000 per year and is, traditionally, the highest-paid federal official. He has use of two presidential residences, the White House and Camp David in Maryland; has both an airplane, Air Force One, and helicopter, Marine One, at his disposal; and has a legion of staff members including a personal chef to assist him in both his professional duties and private life. Risky Job The job is certainly not without its risks.

The president and his family are given round-the-clock protection by the Secret Service. Abraham Lincoln was the first U.S. president to be assassinated; James Garfield, William McKinley and John F. Kennedy were also assassinated while in office. Andrew Jackson, Harry Truman, Gerald Ford and Ronald Reagan all survived assassination attempts. Presidents continue to receive Secret Service protection after they retire from office.

Requirements to hold office Section One of Article II of the U.S. Constitution establishes the requirements one must meet in order to become President. The president must be a natural-born citizen of the United States (or a citizen of the United States at the time the U.S. Constitution was adopted), be at least 35 years of age, and have been a resident of the United States for 14 years. The natural-born citizenship requirement has been the subject of some controversy in recent years. Some commentators argue that the clause should be repealed because it excludes qualified people based on technicalities, and fails to appreciate the contributions made by immigrants to American society. Prominent public officials that are barred from the presidency because they were not born US citizens include California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, and Michigan Gov. Jennifer Granholm.

Under the Constitution, the President serves a four-year term. Amendment XXII (which took effect in 1951 and was first applied to Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1952) limits the President to either two four-year terms or a maximum of ten years in office should he have succeeded to the Presidency previously and served less than two years completing his predecessor's term.

FORMER Presidents of the United States GEORGE WASHINGTON 1789-1797. In 1776, Congress took the final step toward declaring the colonies free and independent states by writing the Declaration of Independence . In the same year the colonies declared themselves independent, drafting for The Articles of Confederation began. Washington helped to shape America in three important ways. First, General Washington commanded the armed forces seeking to win the independence of the 13 colonies from Great Britain during the Revolutionary War. Second, Washington was President of the Constitutional Convention . The Constitutional Convention was composed primarily of Federalists.

They wrote and signed the US Constitution to replace the Articles of Confederation. John Hanson served as the first President of the United States under the Articles of Confederation. Third, in 1789, the same year the Constitution went into effect, Washington was elected the first President of the United States under the US Constitution . Also in 1789, the Bill of Rights was written by James Madison and proposed in Congress. The ten amendments of Bill of Rights were not ratified until two tears later. Vice President under President Washington for two terms. Defeated by Thomas Jefferson in attempt at reelection. Adams was the first Vice President of the United States under the Constitution, and the second President of the United States under the Federalists party.

The US government moved its headquarters from Philadelphia to Washington, DC during Adams administration. Adams was the first President to live in the White House. Adams signed the Declaration of Independence. Adams also appointed John Marshall to Chief Justice of the United States .

Thomas Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence in 1776. The election of Thomas Jefferson is significant because it was the first peaceful transfer of power between two different political parties. John Adams was a Federalist, and the newly elected Jefferson was a Democratic-Republican . Under Jefferson's administration, in the Civil Case of Marbury v Madison, Chief Justice John Marshall declared the power of judicial review over acts of Congress. Father of the Constitution Madison was originally a member of the Federalist Party and supported many of George Washington's policies. In time, he gradually came to oppose the financial plans of Washington's Secretary of Treasury, Alexander Hamilton.

As a result, Madison turned against the Federalist Party and with Jefferson formed the Democratic-Republican Party. James Madison wrote the U.S. Constitution, the Federalist Papers, and the Bill of Rights. Madison wrote the US Constitution to replace the Articles of Confederation.

The Federalist Papers were written between 1776 and 1789 to advertise the US Constitution. Alexander Hamilton and John Jay assisted Madison in writing the papers. Because the US Constitution still faced opposition, Madison promised to write the Bill of Rights. The Bill of Rights was written in 1789, two years later it was ratified and became the first ten amendments to the Constitution. Madison helped design the checks and balances that operate among legislative, the executive, and the judicial branches of the government. He also helped create the US federal system, which divides power between the central government and the states. Madison was reelected president by the narrowest margin of any election since the Democratic-Republican Party had come to power. Madison was Secretary of State when William Marbury sued him to force delivery of his appointment as justice of the peace.

However, President Jefferson had ordered Madison not to make the appointment. Chief Justice John Marshall denied Marbury request for appointment, saying that Marbury had the right to his commission, but not to bring an original action in the Supreme Court. In 1789, The US Constitution went into effect although it faced opposition by the Democratic-Republican Party. In the election that occurred about 40 years after the Constitution went into effect, the Democratic-Republican Party evolved into the Democratic Party of today under the leadership of Andrew Jackson . This change was due to strong differences in opinion between Andrew Jackson and supporters of Thomas Jefferson.

Mainly farmers and other working people supported the Democratic Party. To allow farmers and other working people to help Jackson be elected, Jackson established the state convention to bypass the caucus system. Hostile eastern bankers had dominated the caucus system and had prevented Jackson from taking office because he was a Western farmer. Did not complete his second term. When President Lincoln was assassinated, his Vice President Andrew Johnson took office. Lincoln became the first Republican president of the Unites States . During the Civil War, Lincoln was the incumbent president of the United States.

President Lincoln was assassinated in 1865, and incumbent vice president, Andrew Johnson, took over the presidency. 1865 was the same year the Civil War ended. The Civil War was fought over the issue of the southern states wishing to secede (leave) from the Union.

Eleven southern states tried to secede from the Union. The Union was lead by Lincoln. Under Lincoln , the Emancipation Proclamation became effective.

The Emancipation Proclamation freed slaves who were living in Confederate states that were fighting against the Union. African-Americans were grateful to the Republican Party for the Emancipation Proclamation and for decades they voted in huge numbers for Republican candidates. The South responded to the Emancipation Proclamation with Jim Crow laws that require segregation. Lincoln was elected president for two terms. Lincoln delivered the Gettysburg Address. When President Lincoln was assassinated, his vice-president, Andrew Johnson, became President of the United States.

Vice President under President Lincoln. When President Lincoln was assassinated, Johnson took office; he was impeached and acquitted. After President Lincoln assassination, Andrew Johnson became President of the United States. President Andrew Johnson was impeached by the House of Representatives and tried before the Senate with the Supreme Court Chief Justice presiding . Because Andrew Johnson was acquitted by one vote, he remained in office. Andrew Johnson was the first president to be impeached.

Vice president under President McKinley . When McKinley was assassinated, T. Roosevelt took office. Won election as a member of the Republican Party.

Did not seek reelection. "Square Deal"/ New Nationalism: Policy of the Progressive Party President Roosevelt led supporters into his Bull Moose Party, another name for the Progressive Party . The Party's platform called for numerous social and political reforms, including the conservation of natural and human resources, women's suffrage, popular election of US Senators and the initiative, referendum and recall. President Taft, formerly Roosevelt Vice President, did not continue with the policies Roosevelt had implemented. As a result, Roosevelt decided to run for reelection under the Progressive Party against Taft. Roosevelt was unsuccessful to his attempt at reelection because the Republican Party was divided.

Elected for once, lost reelection to W. Wilson. Chosen to carry on the policies of President Roosevelt . Angered over what he felt was the betrayal of his policies, former President Roosevelt sought the Republican nomination. The Republican Party chose Taft, rather than Roosevelt to run for election. Roosevelt formed the Progressive Party or Bull Moose Party and ran against Taft in an attempt at reelection. If the Republican Party had not split, they would have won the Presidential Election. Elected for twice. "New Freedom": Antimonopoly policies and return to small-scale business.

Wilson won election because Roosevelt, running as a Progressive and Taft the nominee for the Republic Party, divided the Republican voters. During President Wilson's administration, American troops were sent to Europe, and the United States became involved in World War I, 1917. The Central Powers (Germany, Austria-Hungary and Turkey) fought the Allied Powers (Great Britain, France and Russia). Elected four times.

His Vice President Harry S. Truman took over presidency when he died in his office. "New Deal" The 1929 Stock Market Crash affected economies in every country around the world. Many jobs across America were lost. 1929 was the beginning of a period in history known as the Great Depression.

President Roosevelt's nickname was FDR. FDR proposed the New Deal, a series of programs that attempted to fix the economic situation of the United States. The New Deal appealed to African-American voters resulting in a switch of their loyalty from the Republican Party to the Democratic Party. In the first presidential election after the 1929 Stock Market Crash, FDR, a Democrat, was elected president.

FDR was the only American president ever to serve four terms. Today, there is a term limit on the number of times a president can serve in office (two terms). FDR was president when the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor. The day after Japan attacked Pearl harbor, FDR asked Congress for a declaration of war against the Japanese government. This began American involvement in World War II. President FDR died just before the end of World War II and his vice president, Harry S. Truman became President.

World War II ended in 1945 with the unconditional surrender of all Japanese forces in the Pacific. After WWII, America ended its policy of isolationism. Took office when President Roosevelt died. Elected for once.

Lost reelection to Dwight D. Eisenhower.. "Fair Deal" In 1945, FDR died, Hitler died by suicide, and Germany surrendered. Truman ordered atomic bombs to be dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan. Japan surrendered within a week after the bombs were dropped. World War II ended in 1945. The Allies cooperated to form the United Nations Organization (UNO) in San Francisco (the headquarters of the UNO are now in New York City). UNO was established to ensure global peace and security. Within the UN are agencies such as the United Nations International Emergency Children's fund (UNICEF), which provides education and health care, nutrition and emergency aid; and the UNESCO (United Nations Educational Scientific, and Cultural Organization), a specialized agency to promote cooperation in these areas.

Due to the fear of spreading communism, the US began the policy of containment shortly after the end of WWII. The Berlin airlift provided food and supplies to West Germany because it had no road access due to a Soviet blockade. The Allied airlift forced the Soviets to lift the Berlin blockade that was aimed at pressuring the Western powers out of the Soviet occupied areas. After WWII, America abandoned the policy of "abstention from entangling alliances in peacetime," by joining the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) of democratic countries of Europe. NATO included Britain, France, Benelux, Canada, Denmark, Iceland, Italy, Norway and Portugal. The alliance was a form of protection from communist threats. The Soviets responded to NATO by forming the Warsaw Pact (Warsaw Treaty Organization) which intended to guard countries where Soviet influence was present. The Truman Doctrine (containment) was aimed to support free peoples who were resisting Soviet communism.

At the time the Truman Doctrine was adopted, Great Britain requested help from the US to protect Greece and Turkey from communist aggression. Great Britain feared the domino theory, which states if one country falls into communism more will follow until all are affected. The US kept the Soviets from pursuing imperialistic interests by focusing on internal reconstruction through the Marshall Plan also known as the European Recovery Program. The Truman Doctrine and Marshall Plan were based on containment of the Soviet Union, Soviet Union satellites, and communist allies. The Cold War, was a period of ideological, economic and political hostility and competition between east and west from 1945 to 1989.

The Cold War also resulted in creating a bipolar world in which nations were either allied with the US or the Soviet Union. The government of Nationalist leader Chiang Kai-shek was so corrupt that US aid was ineffective. Chinese Communists under dictator Mao Tse-tung took over China, making it the People's Republic of China (PRC). Chiang fled to Formosa (Taiwan) where he became president of the Republic of China (ROC). The Korean War was after WWII. Japan had withdrawn from Korea that was now divided by the 38th parallel.

The 38th parallel divided Korea into the Democratic People's Republic (Communist North Korea) backed by the USSR, and the Republic of (South) Korea, backed by the US and the UN. South Korea had a weak army and needed help to defend itself. The UN with a great deal of assistance from the US struggled to push the North Koreans back across the 38th parallel . The UN and American troops were stationed at the DMZ (demilitarized zone). Dwight D. was known as Ike Eisenhower. President Eisenhower ended the Korean War, which had begun when Harry S. Truman was President Since 1862, France controlled the provinces around Saigon, and by 1893 it dominated all of Indochina (Vietnam, Laos and Kampuchea, or Cambodia). A group led by Ho Chi Minh formed the League for the Independence of Vietnam (Vietminh) to oust the French from Vietnam.

In the Geneva Accord, France, Great Britain, Russia and China agreed to divide Vietnam along the 17th parallel. The Democratic Republic of Vietnam (pro communist), under Ho Chi Minh would be to the north (Vietcong), and the southern sector would belong to Emperor Bao Dai. In the Soviet Union, marxist-leninist dictator Joseph Stalin died and was replaced by Nikita Krushchev. Soviets launched the satellite Sputnik.

The US felt the need to improve education in an attempt to compete with Soviet technology. To improve educational programs, the US passed the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA). In the Middle East, the US had to restrain Russian expansion into oil resources such as Iran, Iraq, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. Another source of conflict in the Middle East was due to Israel (former Palestine) constant friction with neighboring nations . Truman support of Israel caused feelings of resentment for the US among Israel Arab neighbors. This conflict added to national, ethnic and religious dissent in the Middle East.

An example Arab dissent would be the movement of Palestinians in Jordan and Israel to form a Palestine Nation. When Guatemala began importing Soviet weapons, the Eisenhower administration helped overthrow the Guatemalan President Jacobo Arbenz Guzman. Similarly, Fidel Castro overthrew Dictator Fulgencio Batista and began a revolution in Cuba. Eisenhower ended his term breaking diplomatic relations with Cuba. Defeated Richard Nixon, Vice President under Ike Eisenhower for two terms. JFK was assassinated, and Vice President LB Johnson , took office. "New Frontier" Kennedy was the first Catholic to be elected President of the United States.

He is the only president in US history who was not a WASP (White Anglo-Saxon Protestant). He selected Lyndon B. Johnson as his vice-president. Once there were signs of Soviet-friendly activity in Cuba, Kennedy assigned the CIA to train and equip anti-Castro exiles to attack and overthrow revolutionary dictator Fidel Castro. This secret army invaded the Bay of Pigs , but was unsuccessful. Kennedy then raised an economic blockade on Cuba. Castro strengthened his connections with the Soviet Union.

The Soviet Union loaded Cuba with nuclear technology. Kennedy demanded removal of the nuclear weapons, threatening force if necessary. The blockade on Cuba was lifted and both the US and Soviet Union opened direct communication in case of crisis. This event was called The Cuban Missile Crisis. The Berlin Wall was built to separate east and west Germany.

The wall was built to stop migration in and out of East Germany. With no obvious objection from the US, the Soviet Union began testing nuclear weapons. President Kennedy also introduced Civil Rights legislation to Congress. President Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas, Texas. Vice-president Lyndon B. Johnson became president. Completed President Kennedy's term.

Won election once. Did not seek reelection. "Great Society" Johnson took the oath of office as President of the United States after President Kennedy assassination. Johnson Great society policies introduced dozens of innovative and new grant programs with an urban focus. The Model Cities program was designed to help cities develop projects addressing a variety of economic and social problems. For the first time community based programs for feeding the poor, training the unemployed, and educating the children of low-income families were introduced.

Under Johnson administration, American combat troops were deployed in Vietnam. Johnson requested congress to pass the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution that authorizes the President o take all necessary measures to repel any armed attack against the forces of the US and to prevent further aggression. The involvement of American troops in Vietnam was protested throughout the United States.

President Johnson did not seek reelection.