Wilson Electronics make Cellular Antennas, Amplifiers, Repeaters, Cables and Mounts, as well as carrying spares for their range of equipment. For almost 40 years, Wilson Cellular and Wilson Electronics have been pioneers in the wireless communications industry. In this time, they have developed a full line of patented cellular amplifiers and antennas with the highest performance ratings attainable at this point in time.

You can see the complete line of Wilson Electronics amplifiers, repeaters, adapter cables, antennas and more by simply visiting their website at: www,wilsonantennas.com Take a closer look at: Wilson Cellular Amplifier806-896 MHz Yagi/Corner Reflector, consisting of: * PCS and Dual Band Cellular Antennas * Antenna Adapter Cables * Wilson Electronics Mirror Mount Brackets * In-Vehicle Phone Amplifiers * Residential Phone Amplifiers/Repeaters Some Featured Products: Innovative Amplifiers help mobile professionals to remain in communication. For example, the Wilson Mobile ProDesign was especially made for the businessperson on the move. Then, Wilson's SignalBoost Mobile Professional Amplifier offers the ultimate in portability and flexibility. It features a compact amplifier and built-in antenna, allowing for wireless operation with no physical connection to cell phone or data card, and it can service and support multiple cell phones and data cards effectively and simultaneously. The Wilson Mobile Pro is available with a 12" magnet mount or a 4" mini-magnet mount, and the Mobile Pro easily moves from vehicle to building, because the kits include an outside magnet-mount antenna, USB power cable, DC power supply with USB port, AC power supply with USB port, suction cup window-mount antenna bracket, dashboard bracket, carry bag, and installation guide. The Mobile Cellular Signal Amplifier kit with cradle, enhances cellular signal reception within a vehicle. Wilson Electronics has taken the best-selling SignalBoost amplifier, and coupled it with the new inductive cradle and an external, dual-band antenna.

All of the necessary cables, connectors and power adapters are included in the box, so with one SKU your customers are good to plug and go! The New Unit Features: * The phone cradle features a built-in coupler * Supports all U.S. Cellular and PCS carriers * Plug and play - everything needed is in the box * Installs in minutes - no special knowledge required The stand alone inductive coupler phone cradle is a lso available , and this unit enables you to hook up an antenna or amplifier directly to your phone cradle, which will enhance your cellular signal. Ready for use in any vehicle!

Accessories: Supplier TESSCO carries a complete line of adapters, antennas, and amplifiers for nearly any wireless phone or data card. Just visit our Phone Accessories Search Page, enter the manufacturer and model of your phone/data card, and look under the Antenna Adapter Cable section or RF Power Amp for compatible products. The best of all is that Wilson Electronics can help improve reception, battery life and data download speed.

At Dektronix, we can now offer clients the ability to extend their Wireless networks both inside and outside of their office space , through the employment of Hawking Technology's High Gain Antenna's , USB and network adapters. Our Indoor Antenna's include the following: The H-AI6SD Indoor Directional Antenna boosts your IEEE 802.11b or IEEE 802.11g wireless signal strength from 2dB (Standard) to 6dB! One of the major problems with many wireless networks is the poor coverage area of standard access points and wireless routers.

When combined with two directional antennas directed toward each other, your wireless range may be extended up to 2750ft. Hawking Technology HAI15SC , 2.4GHz Hi-Gain Wireless Corner Antenna, boosts your wireless signal strength from 2dBi (standard) to 15dBi! The Hi-Gain Corner Antenna is the perfect solution for providing Wireless coverage in very large rooms, conference halls or buildings. The high power level of the antenna ensures that every corner of your application will be covered. The Hi-Gain Corner Antenna has been specifically designed for easy installation in the corner of a wall. This also allows for easier coverage of an entire building, room or hall.

Hawking Technologies' H-AI6SI (Single Band 802.11b and 802.11g) Wireless Antenna boosts your wireless signal strength from 2dB (standard) to 6dB! As an omni-directional antenna, this unit increase the strength in all directions. OutDoor Antenna Kits: H-AO8SI is one of Hawking's Hi-Gain 24 series, 2.4 GHz Wireless Antenna Line.The Outdoor Omni-Directional Antenna emits a powerful amplified signal over a 360 degree radius, delivering a strong multi- direction signal from an Access Point or a Bridge.The H-AO8SI also comes with a mounting kit, connectors, and a surge protector.

Dektronix Inc. carries 10ft ( H-AC10N ) and 30ft ( H-AC30N ) Outdoor antenna cables. However, the shorter the total cable length is, the stronger signal the antenna will have. The H-AO14SD Outdoor Directional Antenna Kit is currently the strongest Hi-Gain antenna. When paired with another Hi-Gain antenna it is capable of extending your wireless range up to one and a half mile. The directional design of the antenna creates a 30 degree emission of your highly amplified wireless signal. The Kit includes the outdoor antenna, mounting kit, weather-proof taping and SMA connector cable. In order to successfully install the antenna, one must purchase either the 10ft( H-AC10N ) or 30 ft( H-AC30N ) outdoor antenna cable.

Our Best Selling Wireless Adapter: The H-WU36D is an innovative breakthrough by Hawking Technologies. By combining the performance benefits of Hi-Gain Antennas with the versatility of a 802.11b 2.4GHz Wireless USB network Adapter, Hawking has created the best overall Wireless USB Network Adapter. With distance, signal strength and signal quality up to 100% greater than standard wireless adapters, the H-WU36D simply outperforms the competition. The USB interface lets you take your Wireless Hi-Gain Network Adapter with you wherever you go. connecting to your desktop or your laptop and never worry about losing your connection again.