The practice of dieting in order to lose weight is ancient in its origins. Throughout the 17th and 18th centuries, physicians and patients regulated their food carefully in order to prevent disease. In the 19th century, as the scientific classification of foods took shape, doctors and scientists began experimenting with targeted diets. William Banting is one of the first people known to have successfully lost weight by dieting, circa 1863, by targeting carbohydrates. The low carbohydrate diet , sometimes marketed today as the Atkins Diet, remains popular today. A successful weight-loss diet requires that energy expenditure exceeds energy intake (from food). In theory, one must burn 3,500 Calories (14,644 kilojoules) more than one consumes to lose one pound (0.45 kilograms) or burn 9000 Calories (37,656 kilojoules) more than one consumes to lose one kilogram. Actual numbers are a bit less, since fat tissue is not 100% fat, so burning 9000 Calories will make one lose a bit more than 1Kg. But 9000Kcal per Kg is a good rule of thumb. Humans require essential nutrients from 5 broad classes: proteins, fats, carbohydrates, vitamins and minerals . Essential amino acids (protein) are required for cell, especially muscle, construction. Essential fatty acids are required for brain and cell wall construction. Vitamins and minerals are essential for many functions.Any diet that fails to meet minimum nutritional requirements can threaten general health (and physical fitness in particular). If a person is not well enough to be active, weight loss and good quality-of-life will be unlikely. The National Academy of Sciences and the World Health Organization publish guidelines for dietary intakes of all known essential nutrients.Sometimes dieters will take excessive amounts of vitamin and mineral supplements. While this is usually harmless, some nutrients are notably dangerous. Men (and women who don't menstruate) need to be wary of iron poisoning . Retinol (oil-soluble vitamin A) is toxic in large doses. Weight-loss diets restrict the intake of specific foods, or food in general, to reduce body weight. This is what "fad diets" are marketed for. There is a (sometimes confusing) multitude of weight loss techniques, many of which are ineffective. What works for one person will not necessarily work for another, due to metabolic differences and lifestyle factors. Also, it's important to note that dieting does not actually lead to weight loss in the long term. Reducing the body's food supply causes it to stockpile excess fat as a starvation response. Physical exercise is an important complement to dieting in securing weight loss. Aerobic exercise is also an important part of maintaining normal good health, especially the muscular strength of the heart. To be useful, aerobic exercise requires maintaining a target heart rate of above 50 percent of one's maximum heart rate for 30 minutes, at least 3 times a week. Brisk walking can accomplish this. The ability of a few hours a week of exercise to contribute to weight loss can be overestimated. To illustrate, consider a 100-kilogram man who wants to lose 10 kilograms and assume that he eats just enough to maintain his weight (at rest), so that weight loss can only come from exercise. Those 10 kilograms converted to work are equivalent to about 350 megajoules. (We use an approximation of the standard 37 kilojoules or 9 Calories per gram of fat.) Now assume that his chosen exercise is stair climbing and that he is 20 percent efficient at converting chemical energy into mechanical work (this is within measured ranges). To lose the weight, he must ascend 70 kilometers. A man of normal fitness (like him) will be tired after 500 meters of climbing (about 150 flights of stairs), so he needs to exercise every day for 140 days (to reach his target). The minimum safe dietary energy intake (without medical supervision) is 75 percent of that needed to maintain basal metabolism. For our hypothetical 100-kilogram man, that minimum is about 5,700 kilojoules (1,300 Calories) per day. By combining daily aerobic exercise with a weight-loss diet, he would be able to lose 10 kilograms in half the time (70 days). Of course, the described regime is more rigorous than would be desirable or advisable for many persons. Therefore, under an effective but more manageable weight-loss program, losing 10 kilograms (about 20 pounds) may take as long as 6 months.There are also some easy ways for people to take exercise, such as walking rather than driving, stair climbing instead of taking elevators, doing more housework, or parking the cars farer and walking to school or office can all be very good exercise. L ow-fat diets were popular during the 1980s and 1990s, encouraging people to eat foods low in fat (or without fat altogether) and instead eat foods high in carbohydrates.For instance, people should eat less fat junk food or sweet snacks, instead, you can choose low-calorie, and high-fiber foods like fruits and vegetables. These will help people feel full longer, and make any diet plan more effective. Also, plan your meals and buy the food you need so that you will not be tempted to turn to fast food when you are hungry. The general public came to believe, partly due to information from low-fat diet proponents, that carbohydrates were "energy food" and that only fat made people fat. This led to high consumption of low-fat foods rich in refined carbohydrates (notably corn syrup ), which led some people to gain more weight. Some low-fat diets were healthier, focusing on consumption of whole grains, vegetables and lean meats. But even these diets did not recognize the importance of essential fatty acids. For example, the uncooked diet tends to improve a participant's health. People's weight tends to normalize due to the lack of fat in the diet. It also gives people a high amount of energy as uncooked food is easily metabolized. The Atkins Diet is a very popular diet.Dr. Robert Atkins ' concept, somewhat exaggerated by the media, that a person can lose weight whilst gorging on meat, has captured the public's imagination. The success of those who tried the diet varied depending on the degree they adhered to the long term stages of the diet structure. The Atkins diet was originally designed for diabetes patients who wanted to manage their insulin levels more effectively. The diet was also embraced by those seeking a diet that allows eating to satiation. Atkins discourages refined carbohydrate intake and encourages protein intake, especially in the form of meat. The diet encourages the consumption of fruits and non-starchy vegetables for the provision of fiber and nutrients; it takes a somewhat neutral stand on fat intake. Many people experience rapid initial weight loss on Atkins, some of which is due to depletion of glycogen stores in the liver. Loss of glycogen is associated with loss of water weight, since the body stores up to four pounds of water for each pound of glycogen. Low carbohydrate diets have been shown to reduce the fasting levels of triglycerides . Elevated triglycerides are a demonstrated risk factor for heart disease. (Low-fat diets also reduce fasting levels of triglycerides.) A low-carbohydrate diet may not be suitable as a weight-maintenance diet (long-term). The products of fat metabolism ( lipolysis ) and protein metabolism (gluconeogenesis) include ketones which can be harmful. Note: Any successful weight-loss diet will cause some acidosis; symptoms range from mild fatigue to severe joint pain. Acidosis can be controlled by drinking water (in large amounts) and taking antacid supplements (or eating vegetables grown in alkaline soil). Since the advent of controversial diets such as Atkins, various diets that stress the eating habits of "natural humans" have been developed. The Evolution Diet explains "what and how we were designed to eat"; the Paleolithic Diet imitates the way people ate during the Stone Ages . These eating plans include basically natural foods (those not processed by humans). Whereas the Paleolithic Diet excludes milk and grain-foods, The Evolution Diet excludes human-made ingredients such as partially hydrogenated oils but allows some processed foods such as whole-grain crackers and dairy products. Anthropologists who focus their research on human evolution, however, are quick to point out that the diet of Paleolithic peoples was most likely opportunistic. That is, these early humans would most likely eat whatever edible foods were available at any given moment (e.g. vegetables, termites, meat) and not restrict their intake of any food. Until recent human history, starvation has been a far greater threat than over-consumption. Liquid fasting diet, as the name suggests, consist of fluids as the main ingredient. People on liquid fasting are advised to consume nutritional drinks, including fruit juices, vegetable juices and smoothies, so that their body gets the energy required for proper functioning. This diet helps a great deal in shedding weight quickly. Moreover, it helps you build the momentum that can enable you to sustain a long-term weight loss program. In the following lines, we have given some useful tips on liquid fasting diets. Liquid Fasting Diet Tips It is recommended to consult a physician before starting a liquid fasting diet. Dairy products are strict no-no. This is because dairy products may prove to be hard on your body, when you are liquid fasting. Moreover, it takes a long time to digest dairy products. Protein is a very essential nutrient for the body, especially when you are fasting. A minimum intake of 20 grams protein per day is highly recommended. Protein smoothies taste great and are apt for liquid fasting diets. Make use of soy, rice or whey protein powder to make delicious smoothies. Start the day with a glass of smoothie, in the breakfast. Apart from protein, vitamins and minerals are must-have nutrients in liquid fasting diet. Essential vitamins are found in fruit juices. You may opt for multi-vitamin or multi-mineral supplement as well. Caffeine and alcohol consumption should be kept at minimal levels, when you are on liquid fasting diet. It is better to avoid both, as these liquids tend to dehydrate the body, which may result in excessive loss of water. If the withdrawal of caffeine triggers headache, consume only half-cup of coffee in the morning. Make a wise choice of fruit juices. The high amount of fructose or glucose in commercially-produced fruit juices may escalate hunger, increasing your appetite. Hence, prepare fresh fruit juice at home. It is suggested to have diluted form of fruit juice, rather than the concentrated one. If the diluted form doesn't taste good, go for vegetable juices. Most people on liquid fasting diet negate the function of fats. Essential fatty acids are very important addition to the diet, as they will help a great deal in absorbing the food and keep you from feeling hungry. Your body needs a regular supply of energy when you are on a liquid fasting diet. Since your body is getting lesser amount of calories as compared to a normal diet, you need to drink liquids frequently. Increase the frequency of the consumption of fluids to once every two to three hours. Intake of vegetable juice or diluted fruit juice after every three hours is also recommended. Drink plenty of water all through the day. This will help you a great deal in detoxifying the body. A cup of herbal tea or black tea in the afternoon is energizing. Moreover, it serves as a great anti-oxidant. To make the beverage delicious, add honey or lemon to it. Vegetable juice works perfectly for dinner. Never Crash Diet This is the biggest mistake dieters make. You are setting yourself up for failure if you crash diet or attempt starvation diets. When you lose weight rapidly your body is typically only losing glycogen and water weight, not fat. Your body thinks that it starving and reduces its metabolic rate, which makes it harder for your body to burn each calorie. Then when you start eating normally again, your body stores as much food as it can into your fat cells in case of another amine.In a crash diet you will burn more muscle cells than fat cells. Substitute Foods Instead of Eliminating Them . Try out different reduced fat brands and items and who knows, you may find something that you like even better than the original. Normally what happens when individuals attempt to eliminate certain food items is that they do not succeed and they end up eating more of the food item to make up for the original loss. Moderation should be your goal. Over time there will be foods that you will naturally stop eating if your goal is healthy eating. Watch What you Drink Cutting soda out of your diet completely can save the average person 360 calories or more each day. Even diet soda, fruit juices, and whole milk can add unnecessary calories to your daily intake. Instead, drink lots of water and switch from whole to skim or even soy milk. If you drink 5-8 glasses of water a day, you will not have a desire for the high calorie drinks. Move Around Getting up, moving around, and exercising will reduce the amount of food that you will need to cut back on. There are simple things you can do to increase exercise and thus burn calories. Use stairs instead of elevators and escalators. Park further away when going to a store. Walk the dog instead of just letting them outside. Take an extra lap or two around the mall. Do something while watching TV instead of just sitting on the couch eating snack food. Start Small Gradually ease into your diet if possible. Remember that small changes are easier to stick with than drastic ones. Start by always leaving a little extra on your plate, or drinking water instead of soda. Slowly adapt healthy eating habits so that it becomes a lifestyle and you will not need to keep going on a diet. Don't Overeat If you're full, or even simply satisfied, stop eating. There no need to eat until your stomach feels like it going to explode. Most restaurants serve more than what is needed in one serving. Get a take out box before you even start your meal and remove a portion of the meal to take home. You can lose weight If your goal is to lose weight by changing your eating habits on a long term basis, you can lose weight permanently. Your goal should be to have healthy eating habits, not to just start another diet. Diets affect the "energy in" component of the energy balance by limiting or altering the distribution of foods. Techniques that affect the appetite can limit energy intake by affecting the desire to overeat.Consumption of low-energy, fiber-rich foods, such as non-starchy vegetables, is effective in obtaining satiation (the feeling of "fullness"). Exercise is also useful in controlling appetite. (Extreme physical fatigue, such as experienced by soldiers and mountain climbers, can make eating a difficult chore.)The use of drugs to control appetite is (potentially) dangerous. Stimulants are often taken as a means to ignore (normal, healthy) hunger by people who are not actually overweight. 