Young has directed several films under his pseudonym Bernard Shakey. These include Journey Through the Past in 1973, Rust Never Sleeps in 1979, Human Highway in 1982, Greendale in 2003 and CSNY D j Vu in 2008. He is also a strong advocate for environmental issues In 1985 he founded the benefit concert Farm Aid, and in 1986 helped found The Bridge School and its annual supporting Bridge School Benefit concerts with his wife Pegi. This is an issue close to his heart as both of his sons have cerebral palsy and both he and his daughter have epilepsy. Young sings as often about America as he does about his native country Canada. He remains a Canadian citizen and has never wanted to give up his Canadian citizenship.

His parents, sportswriter and novelist Scott Young and Rassy Ragland. Neil grew up in the town of Omemee, in Ontario. He moved back to Manitoba with his mother when you was 12 after his parents divorce. In Manitoba he attended the Earl Grey Junior High School where he met Ken Koblun (who would later join him in The Squires) and it was here that he formed theJades, his first band. Neil then went on to attend Kelvin High School in Winnipeg, while here he played in several rock bands.It was here that he formed a band called the Squires/ Their song The Sultans was popular locally.Neil didn't finish high school but he continued to play.The band recorded demos produced Ray Dee, a local producer whom Neil nicknamed the original Briggs.

Neil left the Spires and took to playing theWinnipeg folk clubs. It was on the folk circuit where he met Joni Mitchell and during this time he wrote a lot of folk songs that are popular to this day. In 1965 Neil went on a tour of Canada. In 1966 he joined up with the band the Mynah Birds and had a record deal with the Motown label. However during the recording of the album the lead singer was arrested for going AWOL from the army, and the band fell apart., Neil then moved on to LA where he formed Buffalo Springfield.

These different music styles have included jazz, rockabilly, swing, blues, and electronic music, though most of his music falls into either the acoustic folk rock style we hear on Heart of Gold", "Harvest Moon" and "Old Man" or the hard rock style we hear on "Cinnamon Girl", "Rockin' in the Free World" and "Hey Hey, My My (Into the Black)". Young often incorporates modern music styles into his playing such as industrial, alternative country and grunge. His influence on the grunge movement has led him to have the nickname 'the godfather of grunge'.

1972 also saw the birth of Neil's first child, a boy called Zeke. Neil's next album was released in 1973 and was titled Time Fades Away. Neil describes this release as his least favourite album.

This album was created during the aftermath of the loss of his friend and fellow band member Danny Whitten of a drugs overdose which had a profound effect on Neil. Later in that year Neil formed another band called the The Santa Monica Flyers. They recorded an album called Tonight's the Night . Neil's record company delayed the release of Tonight's the Night, so in the meantime Young recorded On the Beach which was released in 1974. Neil's next step was to set out on a long tour, the Rust Never Sleeps tour which featured both a solo acoustic set and an electric set with Crazy Horse. There was an album released to accompant the tour, and a movie of the concerts which was directed by Neil under the name Bernard Shakey. In 1979 Neil was voted Artist Of The Year and Male Vocalist Of The Year by Rolling Stone, they also chose Rust Never Sleeps as Album Of The Year.

In 1980 Neil recorded the incidental music to a biopic of Hunter S. Thompson called Where the Buffalo Roam. That same year he recorded an album called Hawks & Doves and in 1981 another album entitled Re-ac-tor with Crazy Horse. In 1982 came the release Trans . An unusual album that made great use of electronic effects. Next came a rockabilly album Everybody's Rockin' which was released in 1983. Fans were confused by his constant change of style and it even caused the head of his record company, David Geffen to sue him for making unrepresentative music. During this time he was also involved in co-directing and co-writing a full-length comedy film called Human Highway in which he also acted a part.

In 1985 Neil was back with Crosby, Stills and Nash performing at Live Aid in Philadelphia's John F. Kennedy Stadium. They played, "Only Love Can Break Your Heart" and " Daylight Again/Find The Cost of Freedom," the first songs they had played as a foursome in front of a paying audience since 1974. 1985 saw the release of Old Ways a country music style album Then in 19876 anding on Water and then Life with Crazy Horse in 1987 which fulfilled his obligations to Geffen and Neil signed to Warner Brothers, returning to Reprise Records. The first album with this new signing was This Note's For You released in 1988 with a new band called The Bluenotes, which had to be renamed Ten Men Workin' after a musician Harold Melvin, who owned thname rights sued. In 1989 he released Freedom which featured a blend of acoustic an electric rock styles. In That same year Terry Tolkin produced a tribute album The Bridge: A Tribute To Neil Young, featured fifteen cover versions. His next album was Ragged Glory with Crazy Horse, recorded at his own ranch.

Neil then went on tour with the punk band Social Distortion. In 1992 Neil released another country album, Harvest Moon a sequel to Harvest In 1992 he worked on the soundtrack to the film Philadelphia. One of his songs from the soundtrack was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Song. Bruce Springsteen ended up winning the award for his song Streets of Philadelphia from the same film and in his acceptance speech, Springsteen said "the award really deserved to be shared by the other nominee's song." That same night, Tom Hanks accepted the Oscar for Best Actor and gave credit for his inspiration to Neil's song Philadelphia. Young performed with Pearl Jam at the MTV Music Awards This led on to a joint tour with the band.

The album Mirror Ball was then released in 1995. In 1996 Neil toured Europe and North America and released live album and a tour documentary both entitled Year of the Horse. In 2000 Young reunited with Crosby, Stills and Nash, they had a very successful tour.

This is the guitar he uses the most and you will hear him play it on the Rust Never Sleeps album and many of his other albums too. He got this guitar in the 1960's. In 1972 he had a mini- humbucker pickup from a Gibson Firebird guitar installed into the lead/treble position to replace the P-90 that was standard on Les Pauls at that time. This is considered to be a big factor in Neil's iconic sound. A Bigsby vibrato tailpiece was also installed on the guitar around 1969 which can be heard on Cowgirl in the Sand on Everybody Knows This Is Nowhere . The guitar came from Jim Messina. Young swapped a Gretch for it in 1969. Jim Messina still has the Gretch he swapped for it.

Neil's most used steel-string acoustic guitar is a Martin D-45. He used this to write "Old Man" as well as many other songs. This guitar also has a nickname. This one is called Hank because it used to belong to Hank Williams . Young has toured with this guitar for more than 30 years and is the main guitar used on the album, Prairie Wind .

He also has a 1927 Gibson Mastertone A six-string banjo which is tuned like a guitar. This was played by James Taylor on "Old Man" and you will hear it on many other songs too. Neil loves vintage Fender Tweed Deluxe amplifiers and so has many of them.

In 1967 he bought his first vintage Deluxe in 1967 from Ralph Molina, the drummer of Crazy Horse. Since then his collection has grown in number to nearly 450 from that era. He nearly always uses the Tweed Deluxe in a unique pairing with a 1950's Magnatone 280. The external speaker jack from the Deluxe sends the signal through a volume potentiometer and directly into the input of the Magnatone. The Magnatone is famous for its pitch-bending vibrato capabilities. You can hear this as an electric piano amplifier on "See the Sky About to Rain". Neil also has a unique accessory for his Tweed Deluxe - the Whizzer. This was made specially for him and it physically changes the settings to pre-set combinations.

Before he bought Old Black, Neil's main guitar was the Gretsch 6120. He used this during his time with Buffalo Springfield Towards the end of his time with Buffallo Springfield he bought a Gretsch White Falcon Late '50s hollow body, and in 1969 he bought a stereo version of the same guitar from Stills which he used a lot in the early 70s. You can hear this guitar on Alabama, Ohio, Southern Man, L.A. and several other songs of that era and famously used on the Harvest album.

This signal from the 3 bass strings on this stereo 6137 White Falcon is separated from the signal from the three treble strings. Neil usually plays this guitar in stereo mode and sends the separate signals to two different amps: the Fender Deluxe and either a Fender Tremolux or a low-powered Tweed Fender Twin. You can hear this stereo separation best on the song Words on the Harvest album.

Young was inducted into the Canadian Music Hall of Fame in 1982. He has been inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame twice. In 1995 for his solo work, with an induction speech given by Eddie Vedder, and again in 1997 as a member of Buffalo Springfield.

a company that makes toy trains and railroads. Neil is also an inventor, and has been named as co-inventor of seven U.S. Patents related to model trains: Nos. In 1996 Mojo magazine featured Neil Young in the number 9 spot in their "100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time" list.

In 2000 Neil was listed at number 39 on VH1's 100 Greatest Artist of Hard Rock . In 2001, Young was awarded the Spirit of Liberty award from the civil liberties group People for the American Way. In 2004, Rolling Stone Magazine listed Neil at number 34 in their list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time. In 2006 Paste Magazine listed Neil at number 2 behind Bob Dylan . in their "Greatest Living Songwriters" list.

Neil Young has most definitely been a very important artist in the history of American pop music and is still a great influence on other artists. Lynyrd Skynyrd's Sweet Home Alabama was written in response to two of Young's songs, Southern Man and Alabama. Young recorded Ohio with Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young this was about the tragic events at Kent State University in 1970. Young has always been politically outspoken and socially conscious and this has influenced artists such as Phish, Pearl Jam and Nirvana.

Neil Young is referred to as "the Godfather of Grunge" because of the influence he had on Kurt Cobain and Eddie Vedder and the grunge movement as a whole. Kurt Cobain quoted Neil Young in his suicide note with the line "It's better to burn out, than to fade away" from Young's song "Hey Hey, My My". Because of this Young has never played this song live since. Eddie Vedder, of Pearl Jam, cited Neil as a huge influence in 1995. He has also been a big influence on experimental rock acts like Sonic Youth and Radiohead . The Australian rock group Powderfinger also attribute their group name to their love of Young. Young has influenced bands and singer-songwriters for decades.