Registering a Motor Vehicle in Virginia. Welcome To Virginia! Welcome to the Old Dominion State, the Mother of Presidents and home of the Dogwood and the Cardinal. And now your home, too. We hope you are as happy to be here as we are to have you. After your move, there is a lot for you to do, organize, arrange for and apply for; and for many of these important errands, you will need your car. Here at DMV, we're excited to help you get on the road. These steps will give you the information you need to drive on Virginia's highways. There are a number of steps you must take before you can register your motor vehicle in Virginia. Apply for a Virginia driver's license Obtain a vehicle safety inspection sticker To ensure that your vehicle is mechanically safe to operate on the highways of the Commonwealth, it must pass an annual vehicle safety inspection. For information about the safety inspection and the nearest location of a safety inspections station, visit Va State Police - Motor Vehicle Safety Inspection Program. Meet Virginia's emissions inspection standards (your vehicle must meet Virginia's emissions standards when you register it) Your vehicle must pass an emissions inspection before registration if garaged in the counties of Arlington, Fairfax, Loudoun, Prince William, or Stafford, or the cities of Alexandria, Fairfax, Falls Church, Manassas, or Manassas Park. Meet Virginia's vehicle insurance requirements Your vehicle must be insured when you register it. Title your vehicle in Virginia To register your vehicle in Virginia and obtain license plates, you must first title your vehicle within 30 days of moving to Virginia. When these steps have been taken you must r egister your vehicle and acquire license plates within 30 days of moving to Virginia. Application and fees After you have insured and titled it, register your vehicle at any Virginia DMV customer service center. Your registration fee is determined by: the empty weight or gross weight of your vehicle, the type of license plate you purchase (see special license plates section), and the period of time, one or two years, you choose to register your vehicle. A two-year registration costs twice the annual fee and provides added convenience for our customers. However, t he two-year renewal option is not available for vehicles with a gross weight of 55,000 pounds or more, vehicles registered under the International Registration Plan or uninsured vehicles. Local registration The locality in which you live may require you to register the vehicle. Contact your locality to find information for your local Commissioner of the Revenue, Treasurer or Director of Finance. If you are required to o btain a local sticker or decal from your locality, you must do this within 30 days of moving to Virginia. If your vehicle has tinted windows, make sure the tinting complies with Virginia's sunshading specifications. DMV is authorized to issue waivers to individuals who have medical conditions requiring restriction from sunlight or bright artificial light. If you are a male U. S. citizen living in the U. S. or abroad or a male immigrant (permanent resident alien) residing in the U. S., and you are age 18 through 25, you are required to register with the Selective Service System. Registration Information What You Need to Bring with You You will need additional information to title and register a vehicle If you are a new Virginia resident or lease your vehicle. See above. Once y our vehicle must be titled in Virginia , complete an Application for Registration (VSA 14) and present: The completed Application for Registration VSA14. Your emissions certificate if your vehicle is garaged in the counties of Arlington, Fairfax, Loudoun, Prince William, or Stafford, or in the cities of Alexandria, Fairfax, Falls Church, Manassas, or Manassas Park. Motorcycles are not required to have an emissions inspection. Note: When you have your vehicle's emissions system inspected, the emissions inspection station will electronically update your DMV vehicle record with the test results immediately. When registering your vehicle, DMV will not ask you for emissions information unless your vehicle failed the test or this information has not been received from the inspection station. To purchase license plates or decals, you must certify that the vehicle is covered by the minimum insurance requirements or pay the uninsured motor vehicle fee. Your insurance carrier must be authorized to conduct business in Virginia. Virginia requires the following minimum coverage: Bodily injury/death of one person: $25,000 Bodily injury/death of two or more persons: $50,000 Property damage: $20,000 Note: If liability insurance coverage on a vehicle terminates or cancels during the registration period, either reinsure the vehicle, pay the uninsured motor vehicle fee or surrender the license plates to DMV. Fees Your registration fee is determined by the empty weight or gross weight of your vehicle, the type of license plate you purchase and whether you register for more than one year. If you register your vehicle for two years, you will receive a $2 discount. You can save even more when you renew your registration for three years online or by telephone. If you renew your registration for three years, you will receive a $3 discount. The three year registration is not available the first time you register your vehicle. For convenience and fun, register your vehicle for two or three years and purchase one of our special plates. Your License Plates DMV will issue you two license plates, decals showing the expiration date and a registration card. Place the decals on the plates. Place the plates on the front and rear of your vehicle so that they are securely fastened and clearly visible. If your vehicle is a motorcycle, tractor truck, semitrailer or trailer, DMV will issue you one license plate for the vehicle. It is illegal to mount colored glass, plastic, or any other type of covering on your license plates that alters or obscures the letters, numbers, decals or the state where the vehicle is registered and when the registration expires. Remember to keep the registration card with you whenever you operate the vehicle. Registration Renewal After your first registration, DMV will mail your renewal notice prior to the expiration date of your registration. You can renew your registration by telephone, mail or renew online or at any DMV Select or customer service center. A new Virginia law, effective July 1, 2008, encourages customers to save money and time by renewing vehicle registrations (decals) online, by telephone, through the mail or a DMV Select. Discounts and surcharges If you renew in person at a customer service center, you'll pay an additional $5 fee for each vehicle registration renewal transaction. If you renew your vehicle registration for two years, you receive a $2 discount. If you renew your registration by telephone, you can renew for three years and receive a $3 discount. Additionally, if you renew your registration online, you can renew for three years and receive a $4 discount (a $3 discount for a three year renewal and an additional $1 discount for using the internet). The discounts for Internet and two-year or three-year renewals are not prorated and not refundable if the registration is canceled before it expires. Your registration renewal service options are: Customer Service Centers. Customers who renew their vehicle registrations in a CSC beginning July 1, 2008 will pay an additional $5. The fee will not apply if your registration renewal is conducted with another transaction for you, and the second transaction cannot be completed online, by mail, by telephone or at a DMV Select location. Only a few transactions must be completed at a CSC, such as an application for an original driver's license. Internet. Renew online at www.dmvNOW.com, receive a $1 discount, and avoid the $5 fee. Renew for two years and receive an additional $2 discount (for a total discount of $3) or renew for three years and receive an additional $3 discount (for a total discount of $4). Telephone. Renew by using the DMV automated service (1-888-337-4782) to avoid the $5 fee. Additionally, when you renew for one, two or three years you will receive a discount of $1 for each year. Mail. Avoid the $5 fee by mailing in the vehicle renewal notice. Most customers receive their vehicle registration materials within five days, but U.S. mail delivery times vary. Please allow 15 days to receive your decals before contacting DMV. DMV Select. Visit one of the 50 DMV Select offices in Virginia to avoid the $5 fee. Visit www.dmvNOW.com for a list of DMV Select locations. Military Returning From Outside the United States If you own a vehicle registered in Virginia and are serving, or have served, outside of the United States on active duty military service, the Code of Virginia, 6.2-221.4, grants you a 90-day grace period, from the date you return to the United States, in which to renew your current registration. The grace period applies to qualifying vehicles only. To be eligible for the grace period, the vehicle must: Be owned or leased by you while you were serving outside of the United States in the armed services of the United States Have had valid registration issued by DMV at the time you began service in the armed forces outside of the United States Be properly insured Display the latest license plates and decals issued by DMV for the vehicle; AND Be operated only by you, or another person who qualifies for the grace period, while possessing: Orders or other military documentation demonstrating that you, or they, are entitled to the grace period The latest registration card issued by DMV for the vehicle. You do not have to wait until you are in the grace period to renew. If possible, you may renew your qualifying vehicle registration prior to returning to Virginia. 