Uranus is similar in composition to Neptune, and both have different compositions from the larger gas giants Jupiter and Saturn. Because of this they are sometimes called the "ice giants". Uranus's atmosphere, while being composed primarily of hydrogen and helium, contains a higher proportion of ices such as water, ammonia and methane. It is the coldest planet in the Solar System, with a minimum temperature of 224 C. It has a layered cloud structure and it is thought that makes up the lower clouds, and methane the upper clouds.The interior of Uranus is mainly made of ices and rocks. Signs of seasonal change and increased weather activity have been observed in recent years as Uranus approached its equinox. The wind speeds on Uranus can reach 250 meters per second (560 mph).

Before it was discovered to be a planet Uranus had been observed on many occasions, but it was usually mistaken for a star. The earliest recorded sighting was in 1690. John Flamsteed spotted the planet at least six times and catalogued it as 34 Tauri. The French astronomer, Pierre Lemonnier, also spotted Uranus at least twelve times between 1750 and 1769 and once recorded observing it on four nights in a row. William Herschel was in his garden in New King Street in Bath (his house is now a museum of Astronomy) when he observed the planet in the March of 1781.

However he first reported the planet as a comet in the April of the same year. When William Herschel told Nevil Maskelyne, the Astronomer Royal, about his new discovery of what he believed to be a comet, he received a reply stating that he thought it was most likely to be a regular planet moving in an orbit nearly circular to the sun as it did not have a tail to it. Herschel was cautiously and carried on describing his new find as a comet, however several other astronomers also started to think it could actually be a planet too.

Johann Elert Bode of Germany stated that its nearly circular orbit was more like that of a planet than a comet and Anders Johan Lexell of Russia estimated its distance was eighteen times the distance of the Sun from the Earth. This was important as there had not yet been a comet observed even as far away as four times the distance of the Earth from the Sun. By 1783 Herschel agreed that his discovery was in fact a planet. Herschel was given the task of taking his newly discovered and decided to name the it Georgium Sidus (George's Star) in honour of King George III.

However this name was unpopular outside of Britain so an alternative was needed. One suggestion was that the planet be named Herschel after its discoverer. However it was Bode who chose the name Uranus, after the Greek god of the sky Ouranos. There is a complicated planetary ring system around Uranus. They are made of dark particles that measure from micrometers to a fraction of a meter.

So far 13 rings have been observed. All but two of the rings are very narrow, just a few kilometres across.Evidence suggests that the rings did not form along with Uranus but may once have been part of one or more moons that have been shattered as a result of an impact at high velocity. In 1789 Herschel described a possible ring around Uranus, although this is thought to be fairly unlikely, as the rings are so faint to see. No one observed them at all in the next two centuries. However, his description of the ring was actually fairly accurate - its angle relative to the Earth, the red color and the apparent changes as Uranus travels around the Sun. The ring system was officially discovered by James L. Elliot, Edward W. Dunham, and Douglas J. Mink using the Kuiper Airborne Observatory in March 1977. The astronomers had planned to use the occultation of the star SAO 158687 by Uranus to study the atmosphere on Uranus, but when they analyzed their observations, it was found that the star had disappeared out of view five times for a short period of time before and after it went behind the planet.

They decided from this that there must be a ring system around the planet. They then went on to discover four morel rings. In 1986 Voyager 2 discovered another two rings, making 11 in total by that point. Then in December 2005 the Hubble Telescope detected another 2 rings.

Hubble also detected two small satellites, of which one, Mab, shares its orbit with the outermost newly discovered ring. In 2006 the Keck Observatory produced images of the new rings which showed the colours of them as being blue and red. One idea regarding the outer ring's blue colour is that it is perhaps made up of tiny particles of water ice from the surface of Mab that are small enough to scatter blue light.

Uranus itself rotates fully in 17 hours, 14 minutes. It has very strong winds in the direction of rotation, so some visible features of the atmosphere move much faster, making a full rotation in just 14 hours. Once every eighty four years Uranus completes a full revolution around the Sun. It is approximately 3 billion km from the Sun and the sunlight on Uranus is about 1/400 the intensity of that on Earth. Discrepancies were noticed between the predicted and observed orbits, and in 1841, John Couch Adams proposed that that might be the result of gravitational pull from another unseen planet. In 1845, Urbain Le Verrier researched this in 1845, and in September 1846, Johann Gottfried Galle discovered this was actually the case.

There was another planet, which would later be named Neptune that had an impact on the orbit of Uranus. Unusually, the axis of rotation lies on its side, with an axial tilt of 97.77 degrees. Around the time of Uranian solstices, one pole faces the Sun continuously while the other pole faces away. There is only a small strip around the equator which has a rapid day and night cycle. This has the Sun very low over the horizon similar to conditions in the Earth's polar regions. At the other side of Uranus's orbit the orientation of the poles towards the Sun is the opposite.

Each pole gets around 42 years of continuous sunlight, followed by a 42 year period of darkness. Around the time of the equinoxes, the Sun faces the equator of Uranus which results in a period of day and night cycles similar to those seen on most of the other planets. This strange orientation of the axis of Uranus results in the polar regions getting a larger input of solar energy than the equator.

Uranus is still hotter at its equator than at its poles though. No one has yet to discover quite why this is the case. It is also not known why the planet has this unusual axis, but it has been speculated is that it was caused by a collision with another planet when the Solar System was formed.

A planet the size of Earth colliding with Uranus could potentially cause this phenomena. Uranus's magnetosphere contains charged proton and electron particles with a small amount of H2+ ions The ion and electron energies can be as high as 4 and 1.2 megaelectronvolts.The particle population is affected by the Uranian moons that pass through the magnetosphere.The particle flux is high enough to cause a darkening of the moon s surfaces on a relatively rapid timescale of 100,000 years. Uranus has well developed aurorae, bright arcs around both magnetic poles.

Unlike Jupiter's aurorae, Uranus's do not seem to be significant for the energy balance of the planetary thermosphere. Until Voyager 2 visited Uranus there were no measurements of the magnetosphere. Previously astronomers had thought that the magnetic field of Uranus would be in line with the solar windand it would then align with the planet's poles. Voyager 2 discovered that the magnetic field is rather odd because it does not originate from the planet's geometric center, and also because it is tilted at 59 from the axis of rotation. The magnetic dipole is shifted from the center of the planet towards the south rotational pole by as much as one third of the planetary radius resulting in a highly asymmetric magnetosphere with a magnetic field strength on the surface in the southern hemisphere that can be as low as 0.1 gauss, but in the northern hemisphere it can be as high as 1.1 gauss. The average field at the surface is 0.23 gauss. To put this in perspective, the magnetic field of Earth is similar at both poles, and the magnetic equator is more or less parallel with the geographical equator. The dipole moment of Uranus is 50 times that of Earth.

Interestingly Neptune also has a tilted, displaced magnetic field suggesting that this may perhaps be a feature of ice giants. Uranus's magnetotail trails behind the planet into space for millions of kilometers and is twisted into a long corkscrew by the sideways rotation of the planet. Between the years of 1995 and 2006 the visible magnitude of Uranus was between +5.6 and +5.9 which made it placing it just visible to the naked eye. NASA's Voyager 2 visited Uranus in 1986, it came within 81500 kilometers of the planet's cloudtops, before moving on to Neptune. Voyager 2 studied the structure and chemical composition of the atmosphere and discovered ten new moons. The unique weather conditions were studied and also the ring system among other things.