The Ultimate Advantage is an Educated Mind EDUCATING THOSE WHO SERVE AMU students are active, working adults in the military, public safety and national security sectors, and beyond. AMU was founded to provide relevant and affordable education to the military, and today serves a variety of students seeking liberal arts and professional studies degrees. We place special emphasis on programs in homeland security, national security, intelligence, and emergency and disaster management.

Everyone associated with the University shares a passion for providing curriculum, class delivery, and service uniquely designed to meet the needs of those who serve others in their communities. CUTTING EDGE, RELEVANT PROGRAMS It's all about career-relevant options whether you're seeking knowledge and skills that will benefit you in your civilian or military career or help you transition into a completely different field. AMU offers an impressive curriculum with more than 50 undergraduate and graduate degree programs including one of the most comprehensive military studies and national security curricula outside the Department of Defense. Other specialty courses in strategic intelligence, homeland security, security management, and transportation and logistics management cover just a few of the degrees our students pursue.

AFFORDABILITY Despite significant rate hikes commonly found throughout the industry, AMU has maintained modest tuition levels for our undergraduate and graduate courses. And despite our affordability, we still maintain a commitment to continuous quality assessment of our academic programs, and to providing the best distance learning environment possible for our students. In fact, AMU has established a book grant so that undergraduate students do not have to purchase your own books or pay shipping costs, regardless of where you are located. This represents a huge savings for our students, since typical course material costs at a university can total several thousand dollars over the period of the student's enrollment.

This grant is available to all AMU undergraduate students who are seeking academic credit for their courses, and is applicable throughout a student's enrollment in the undergraduate program. CONVENIENCE & FLEXIBILITY At AMU, the individual matters. We are here to serve you, and we help you work your studies around your everyday commitments. The asynchronous course delivery means no specific login times are required. Simply log on and download your assignments when its convenient for you during the week. At AMU, you can progress through your degree path faster. First, courses start monthly, because we know your personal commitments don't always align with a traditional semester schedule.

Second, we offer 8 and 16 week sessions for many classes, so you have the option to take more intense, 8-week courses when your schedule allows. Finally, you won't have to worry that a course you sign up for will be dropped at the last minute due to low enrollment. EXPERIENCED FACULTY Our faculty combines relevant theory with real-world experience. Their academic credentials include such institutions as the University of Chicago, University of Notre Dame, Stanford University, Cambridge University, and Harvard University.

Many are executives in government, business and non-profit organizations, including the United Nations, the State Department, the Department of Defense, the Department of Homeland Security, the Central Intelligence Agency, the National Security Agency, and the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

The Online University Experience Who is the typical student? Our more than 40,000 students are studying online from over 100 countries. Most are adult learners, holding positions within every branch and specialty within the military, and at organizations that include the State Department, the New York Police Department, and the Transportation Security Agency, just to name a few. While we serve a variety of students seeking liberal arts and professional studies degrees, we have a specialized program focus in the areas of homeland security, national security and public safety.

What's inside the electronic campus? Once you become a student and log into the secure campus, you will be welcomed into a typical academic community of fellow students, professors, staff, and administrators. On the campus homepage, you will find important University news from the registrar, administration, and more. Registration dates and other important calendar events are displayed, and you can download and submit University forms here. With a click of a mouse, you can view and print your personalized degree path and profile. Here, you will track your academic progress, update personal information, order transcripts, and more. What is the classroom like? As a student, you will enter your individual classrooms from the campus homepage.

Inside the classroom, you obtain assignments, write papers, conduct research, take tests and exchange information just like in a traditional class, except it's all done online. Professors use a variety of teaching methods, including: posting weekly lecture notes, linking to videos and Web sites, providing access to research information, and initiating asynchronous class discussions and group projects. What are the University's technology requirements? You need access to a computer and an Internet connection. It's that simple. How do I take exams? If the course requires you to take an exam, the professor will determine whether or not the exam requires a proctor. Often, you will choose a proctor who monitors and validates the exam.

You will never have to physically travel to a campus or other location to take your exams. Do I ever have to physically go to a campus? How do I contact professors and fellow students? You contact fellow classmates and professors via email, through posting opportunities inside your classrooms, or via telephone. Professors encourage contact through email any day, any time and telephone calls for additional feedback. What if I get deployed? Afraid of losing credits when you PCS? About to be deployed?

AMU goes with you wherever you go. All of the courses are delivered over the Internet. Our students are located in 100 countries, and thousands are currently deployed. The asynchronous course delivery means no specific login times are required.

Simply log on and download your assignments when its convenient for you during the week. What resources are available to students to help them succeed? You have a multitude of state-of-the-art resources at your fingertips. In our Online Library, you will find a Tutorial Center with specialized instructional modules for your studies and access to personalized Web training services.

A series of Departmental Study Portals offers tailored links for research in advanced sites on the Open and Invisible Web. You will also encounter a searchable online catalog with thousands of electronic books. In addition, we provide access to runs of over 12,000 of the leading academic electronic journals and databases. These feature ProQuest's complete Research Library, ABI-Inform, Criminal Justice Collection, and PsycARTICLES. Ebsco provides its Academic Search Elite, Military & Government, and Security Management & Terrorism packages. You can work too in a growing list of other offerings, including: ABC-Clio's U.S. at War, CIAO's International Affaris, Elsevier's Health & Life Sciences, Emerald Management, Granger's Poetry, Loislaw, and Lexis-Nexis. What are alumni doing professionally with their AMU degrees? AMU alumni are working all over the globe in a variety of leadership positions.

You will find them in a variety of fields, including intelligence, security management, military management, government agencies and contractors, and more.

The Admissions Process - 5 Easy Steps Step 1: Choose the program of study thats right for you and review the admissions criteria. Step 2: Complete and submit the online application for admission. There is no application fee. You will be asked to give us information about your previous educational experiences, so make sure you have names, dates of attendance, etc close at hand before you begin. You will also declare your academic program.

During the application process, you'll receive your AMU student ID number and password; make note of them. You'll need them each time you log into the electronic campus. Step 3: Complete orientation and build your degree.

In orientation, you'll learn about AMU's academic and financial policies and your rights as a student. By the time you've completed the orientation you'll be admitted to AMU! Step 4: Welcome aboard! Your next step is to submit all necessary documentation. All documents are due within 15 weeks from the date of your first registration.

If you are a first-time student with no prior college credits or military experience, submit a copy of either your High School diploma, High School transcripts, or GED via fax or email at 304- 724-3788 or documents@apus.edu. If you are a transfer student or have military or civilian training certificates for evaluation, submit the Transfer Credit Evaluation (TCE) application along with a one time fee of $100. AMU will gladly request all official U.S. college transcripts on your behalf when we receive your signed Transcript Release Authorization form (TRA). To access the TRA, print your TCE application.

Make sure it's complete, sign it, and fax or email the last page to us at 304-724-3811 or tra@apus.edu. You will be responsible for faxing in military transcripts, as well as all certificates, to us at 304-724-3788. All graduate students must have their official Bachelor's degree transcripts sent to the following address: APUS Administrative Offices 10110 Battleview Parkway Suite 114 Manassas, VA 20109 If you're planning to use Federal Student Aid (FSA) to finance your education, fill out the Statement of Intent form and choose your state date. Step 5: Register for courses. Log into the Electronic Campus and open your Academic Plan.

Click on the course(s) youd like to take first and follow the prompts to register. Undergraduates are required to take RQ295 as one of their first courses. If you are using Federal Student Aid (FSA), make sure you register for the same number of credit hours that you declared on your Statement of Intent form. All Active Duty Army students using Tuition Assistance must first register with AMU and then confirm registrations through GoArmyEd.com.

All students receiving Federal Student Aid must register for the entire Academic Semester to comply with FSA regulations. Students pursuing Associate degrees or certificate programs may not use FSA to finance their program of study.