Located in the states of Idaho, Montana and Wyoming , it features multiple natural wonders. The geysers, hot springs, forests, wilderness, wildlife as well as a grand canyon and a large lake provide endless opportunities for touristic activities. B ackpacking, mountaineering, kayaking, fishing, or simple sightseeing, watching bison, moose, and elk in this wonderful park make memorable experiences for the visitors. The Yellowstone park is considered to be one the largest temperate zone ecosystems in the planet, with a wide variety of flowers and other plant life.

It serves as a natural habitat to many wild animals (grizzly bears, wolves), moose and elk, and also to more than 200 kinds of birds.

Yellowstone was a hunting and fishing territory of the Native Americans for hundreds of years. The first recorded visit by a white person was one by John Colter, a trapper, in 1807. Later, in the 1860s several exploring parties arrived to gather information about this land. One of them was the so-called Washburn-Langford-Doane expedition in 1870.

Cornelius Hedges, a Massachusetts-born Montana judge, was a member of this expedition. Although not all historians agree with this statement, but he is generally thought to have proposed the declaration of Yellowstone as a national park. The Yellowstone National Park Act itself was drawn up by several people: William H. Clagett, a Montana territorial delegate in Congress; Nathaniel Langford, territorial revenue collector and later first park superintendent; and Ferdinand V. Hayden, a member of the U.S. Geological Survey. Hayden visited the park in 1871 and was enamoured by the landscape, of which he produced numerous photographs and drawings.

His illustrations were utilized to support the proposal, which the congress eventually accepted. Between 1886 and 1916 the park was under military stewardship then the National Park Service (founded in 1916) was put in charge for its maintenance and operation.

The area, a huge craterlike volcanic basin (caldera), is a geological hot spot and the site of several massive eruptions. This hot spot used to be near what is no w Boise, Idaho, bu t North America has drifted at a rate of 4.5 centimetres a year in a south western direction, shifting the hot spot to its present location and making the Yellowstone Caldera the largest volcanic system in North America. The first and largest eruption occurred to the south west of the current park boundaries 2.2 million years ago releasing 2,500 cubic kilometres of ash, pumice and oth er pyroclastics. The caldera was about 30 by 50 miles in size and hundreds of metres deep. By now, however, it has been filled in by subsequent eruptions. The geologic formation created by this eruption is called the Huckleberry Ridge Tuff. The second eruption ( 1.2 million years ago) ejected 280 cubic km of material and formed the much smaller Island Park Caldera and the geologic formation called the Mesa Falls Tuff.

According to the Volcanic Exposivity Index (VEI), a logarithmic scale used to assess the magnitude of volcanic eruptions, a super-eruption is an event expelling a mass of 450 or more cubic kilometers of material. In comparison the eruption of Mount St. Helens in 1980, which produced 1 to 2 cubic kilometers of volcanic rock, was a minuscule event yet had many unfortunate ramifications on the population in the vicinity of the blast. The repercussions of an eruption of the super volcanic size are incomprehensible. After an eruption the surrounding region would see the greatest devastation, covered by pyroclastic deposits and thick ash fall exterminating most all life and destroying all structures in its path. In landscapes of greater distance from the event the consequences will be less dramatic yet still substantial. Records of previous eruption data from the Yellowstone super-volcano show that the ash fall out from the eruption can cover areas as large as one million square kilometers and could leave the area covered in ash up to 10 centimeters thick.

This would cause destruction of agriculture, extensive damage to structures, decreased temperatures, and potential respiratory hazards. Only a few threatening super-volcanoes are being closely monitored at this time, Yellowstone, Long Valley in California, and Phlegrean Fields in Italy. Seismic unrest, ground heating and swelling, changes in groundwater temperature, and increased concentrations and fluxes of volatile gases may indicate an impeding eruption.

The eruption itself is the climax of a cycle, in which the roof of a partially-emptied magma chamber collapses, creating thus a crater, or caldera. During this process vast amounts of volcanic material gets realeased (usually through fissures that ring the caldera). It is difficult to predict the time for the next cataclysmic eruption in the Yellowstone area due to the small number of such eruptions. we do know, however, that t he time between the cataclysmic eruptions so far has ranged from 600,000 to 900,000 years.

At this time, we poorly understand the length of build up to an eruption, if the size or course of events can be predicted with monitoring, what precursory activity is, or if initial activity will lead to an eruption. Studies of source vents indicate that super-eruptions occur only from very complex and evolved magma chambers. In order for a super-eruption to occur a silica-rich magma is required, in addition, the magma must be near the surface and contain a high amount of silica with at least 40% suspended crystals, and contain a large amount of dissolved gases. These characteristics lead to a magma that is viscous having a high surface tension, which allows for quick degassing and fragmentation of the magma. This fragmentation is a result of the magma expanding and immediately cooling as pressure is released from the system. This type of pyroclastic magma system is driven by the high volatile gas content, which is released as the magma rises to the surface. If the heat and gases fail to leak out in small eruption forms, the system will eventually lead to a super-eruption.

When one of these super-eruptions occurs, it would most definitely be a global catastrophe. However studies of these monstrous events suggest that they alone are not capable of causing mass extinction of a species. Depending on timing, magnitude, and intensity of the eruption, many animals are able to survive these events. Most animal populations can recover quickly as long as the flora populations are able to recover. For human concern, an eruption such as this could affect agriculture over millions of square kilometers and could alter the global climate for decades. Considering 90% of the world's population lives in the Northern Hemisphere and most of the food production takes place here as well, a super-eruption can, and most likely will, cause devastation to many populations. It is a natural disaster that we are unable to prevent and the next eruption could occur tomorrow or 10,000 years from now.

The current Yellowstone caldera occupies 70 square kilometers of the Park and has been dormant since the last lava flow 70,000 years ago. However, recent activity indicates the system's unrest. In addition to ground deformation the system also experiences earthquake swarms and gas and heat emissions. It releases approximately 45,000 tons of carbon dioxide per day. Scientists are unsure if this activity is constant with the cooling of a large magma system or if it is maintaining its output. The system is clearly still active. Possible precursors to an eruption include intense unrest, possibly followed by a smaller eruption or a lava flow, or a small eruption that produces a lava flow and induces an explosive eruption. Scientists believe that the last eruption of Yellowstone 640,000 years ago was preceded by periodic lava flows that occurred for a half a million years until ending with the violent eruption.

Since the last lava flow there have been no new flows out of the system. However if the pressure of the overlying solid crust was to be reduced, either by an earthquake or the continued swelling of the two resurgent domes, the gases could be released and trigger another violent eruption. The deposits from the last Yellowstone eruption have provided researchers with enough scientific data to determine that the system has a cyclic pattern to its eruptive events. Each catastrophic eruption is prefaced by a span of 200,000 to 600,000 years of sporadic basaltic and rhyolitic lava flows. This results from the magma chamber evolving near the surface and producing a ring-fracture system, which allows for intermittent lava extrusions. The creation of the ring-fracture system is eventually followed by a cataclysmic eruption of the magma chamber.

After the eruption a period of surface cooling and magma reformation takes place. This is indicated by more sporadic lava flows that refill the caldera floor. If this cycle proves to repeat itself in the future, the basaltic eruptions from 150,000 to 70,000 years ago could be an indication of an impending eruption. However, they could also be an indication that the system is cooling off since its last explosive event. All geologic, petrologic and geophysical data of Yellowstone seem to point toward a system with the ability to produce future eruptive episodes. In either instance it seems obvious that the magmatic chamber is still active and evolving.

The recent quakes have scientists on high alert about the possibility of a supervolcano eruption. Although it had not happened in 640,000 years, a supereruption could easily cover the U.S. in a blanket of thick smog and ash. The quakes themselves are also dangerous. The burning question is whether c ould Yellowstone's quakes lead to an eruption or could the quakes themselves pose a threat? Stresses on the Earth's crust from tectonic forces as well as stress related to the volcanic system are responsible for Yellowstone's earthquakes. The area has one of the highest rates of seismicity in the western US, experiencing 1,000 to 3,000 earthquakes in a typical year, including the largest historic earthquake of the Intermountain West - a magnitude 7.5 event in 1959.

It was centered near Hebgen Lake, Montana and is responsible for the death of 28 people and causing a $11 million dollar damage. New geysers appeared and the existing ones changed eruption times. On June 30, 1975, a magnitude 6.4 tremor hit the park.

had included 12 events of magnitude 3.0 to 3.9 and approximately 20 of 2.5 to 2.9, with a total of 400 quakes large enough to be located. Although similar swarms have occurred in the past without triggering steam explosions or volcanic activity, the possibility for explosions cannot be excluded, said the observatory, and the earthquakes also may continue and increase in intensity.