KEYBOARD REVIEWS In this article, we will present a number of reviews of computer keyboards, electronic keyboards and digital pianos. If you are in the market for any of these items, you should find this article informative. Questions such as: "what computer keyboards are best for gaming?" will no doubt be of great interest.

Then, between the second and third reviews, we have dropped in a "Did You Know?" tickler just to provide some light relief. We will pause for an "Interlude", and we will also stop to consider other options to outright purchase. Finally, we will close out with a summary of your best way forward when it comes to selecting the best equipment for your needs. Read on, and please enjoy!

Definition: Keyboard, Electronic: In computing terminology, a keyboard is an input device, somewhat modeled after the typewriter keyboard, which uses an arrangement of buttons or keys that then function as electronic switches. A keyboard typically has characters engraved or printed on the keys, and each press of a key typically corresponds to a single displayed character or symbol. However, to produce certain infrequently used symbols, requires the operator to press and hold a couple of keys simultaneously. Some keyboard keys produce letters, numbers or signs (characters), other keys or simultaneous key depressions can produce actions or computer commands.

During normal usage, the keyboard is used to type text or numerics into a word processor, text editor or other systems program. In a modern computer, the interpretation of key depressions is the software's responsibility. A computer keyboard distinguishes each physical key from any other, and reports all key presses to the controlling software. These days, keyboards are the main focus of computer gaming - either with regular keyboards or by using specific gaming keyboards, which can memorize and expedite frequently-used keystroke combinations. Keyboards are also used to give commands to the operating system of a computer, such as the "Windows' Control-Alt-Delete" combination, which shuts down the entire system.

Electronic Keyboards (General) Paint a sound picture Most electronic keyboards have 88 keys to accommodate all your playing options. You can also layer , or combine specific sounds for a customized arrangement. When you are really up to speed, you can even split the keyboard and assign patches too. Electronic keyboards can produce sounds that go beyond a few simple patches.

There are more and more options every month, and you don't only have to play music from the sheet book. Consider what the Korg Triton LE can do for you. Just imagine hearing horns, flutes or strings in a really stirring rendition of "How Great Thou Art" or other great hymns, while you by play from the hymn book arrangement. Sequencing your songs Electronic keyboards can help you learn to sequence, or queue other instruments.

This is great for those times when other players are not available. Sundays are particularly worrying because you know that one of your crucial players could cancel at the last moment. How nice then to have a complete band sound even when one member of your orchestra has not pitched up! Electronic keyboards are also great for those newer players with less experience. All they need do is listen to the part that you sequenced for them, while the band plays merrily along . "Ramp up a Vamp" Moving from one song to the next can be a challenge. For example, as you finish a quiet and sombre song, you may have vamp up for the next one which could be far more intense.

No problem with the electronic keyboard. Electronic keyboards can help you ramp up a vamp, build a musical arrangement and let the keyboard play it for you too, adjusting dynamics, phrasing and other musical elements in the process. Perhaps you need a few minutes to get everything set on stage before the performance begins? Not very impressive if you are disengaged while everyone else is waiting for you to set up. The answer: simply write a transition vamp. The Touch of a Real Piano Electronic keyboards include a digital piano that provides the touch a classically-trained pianist wants and is accustomed to.

Of course, different brands offer different levels of feel, so it a good idea to play several tunes and compare. Generally, however, the Kurzweil has a slightly lighter touch, while the Yamaha is on the heavy side - which is closest to an acoustic grand piano - while the Roland usually lands somewhere in the middle. You should choose a digital piano with 88 keys to satisfy the more advanced sets with your other players. Add some Spice...

A digital piano has some patches, or sounds, but not as many as a synthesized workstation. Still, the additional sounds can sweeten or spice up the basic classical piano sound, which is all well covered by the leading digital piano makers. Expect to find at the least some strings, organ, voices and alternative piano patches on basic manufacturer's electronic keyboards. Midi Compatibility Now here's a truly great thing. When you need a break from the sound of the patches in your digital piano, or they just need to be freshened up, with midi, you just hook up a sound module, and instantly include as many additional sounds as you have available.

Midi Controllers MIDI controllers are devices that are able to transmit performance related MIDI events. The most common type of MIDI controller consists of a keyboard without a sound module. In other words, the instrument produces no sound of its own. Instead, it generates MIDI events from the keyboard. A good keyboard controller usually will have weighted keys that have the "feel" and "response" of a piano.

Midi keyboard controllers usually have 76 or 88 keys. You should choose 88 keys for the greater value for your bucks - the rest of your band will be happy too. Why you should consider one If you have some accomplished musicians, or perhaps that should be technicians, they will be accustomed to programming electronic keyboards with their own sound preferences. For them, a MIDI controller may be the best purchase you can make for a keyboard shared by experienced MIDI musicians. Talk about it all coming together! Suggestions for Specific Keyboard Instruments You don't have thousands to spend, but your need is real? Consider a Casio Keyboard.

You're serious about buying a keyboard, but "new" is beyond your means at this point? Study up the Roland XP-80. Want to learn to play piano on line. With free sheet music, tips and music resources too? Read music gear news, including new product information and consumer reviews - covering guitar, bass, drums & percussion, keyboards, synthesizers, MIDI, recording, live sound and more. The Yamaha keyboard reviews and buying guide is a great resourece. Models covered include digital pianos, and PSR, portable, and mini keyboards and accessories.

IN CONCLUSION We could spend a lot more time comparing reviews, but we think that we have provided sufficient information right here to enable you to make an informed decision as to the best option for you. It all boils down to your budget, your level of expertise and your precise needs. Go slay them!