As a practical matter, it is important to know some facts about the Declaration of Independence because it is a very significant event in the history of the United States. The Declaration of Independence publicly announced to the while world the unanimous and powerful decision of the American colonies to declare themselves free and independent states. These states who cooperated with the decision absolved from any allegiance to Great Britain. There is a greater meaning to such acts. But its greater meaning--then as well as now--is as a strong statement of the conditions of having legitimate political authority and the proper goals and ends of the government and the state, and its proclamation of a new ground of political and governmental rule in the sovereignty of the people. "If the American Revolution had produced nothing but the Declaration of Independence," wrote the great and popular historian called Samuel Eliot Morrison, "it would have been worthwhile." The structure of the Declaration of Independence in the way that it is written is that of a common law legal document which most people aware of the legal jargon could easily understand. The ringing and important phrases of the document's famous second paragraph are a powerful synthesis and set of American constitutional and republican government theories which are rooted in the importance of the participation of the people to maintain sovereignty. All men have a right to freedom, equality, and liberty only in so far as they are by nature equal, which is to say none are naturally superior, and deserve to rule, or inferior, and deserve to be ruled.This disparity happens because of the creation of man himself. Because men are endowed with these rights, the rights are unalienable and cannot be taken away from man because these rights are inherent, which means that they cannot be given up or taken away. And because individuals equally possess these inherent rights, governments derive their just powers and authority from the consent of those governed. The trust and consent of the people are two indispensable requirements of an effective political society. The purpose of a government and body politic is to secure these fundamental rights are protected and, although prudence tells us that governments should not be changed for trivial and unjustifiable reasons, the people retain the right to alter or abolish government when it becomes destructive of these ends. Thomas Jefferson was said to have used no books or pamphlets to aid him in writing the Declaration of Independence. However, it should be noted that since his early days in politics and governance, he had thought and read about government. He is said to be well versed on the rights of mankind. He was a strong believer that each individual needs to have dignity and should be treated equally. Thomas Jefferson was able to read the famous British writer John Locke, who believed that the people are born with inherent natural rights which should be honored by fellowmen in this world. Governments should exist because they are tools which work and regulate the common goods for the benefit of everyone, not just for the rulers who have been fortunate to have control over the resources. The ideas mentioned in this paragraph were evident in Jefferson's ideas for the creation of Virginia's new state constitution. Thomas Paine had also stated a similar idea in his book called Common Sense: "A government of our own is a natural right." Thomas Paine is one of the political philosophers who believed that the people have the right to organize and form a community which would best serve their interests. The president worked on the draft while attending to other duties that his official role entailed. Jefferson was able to complete his draft of the declaration of independence in a few days. He argued in the opening two paragraphs that a group of people had the right to overthrow and revolt against their government when it abused their fundamental and inherent natural rights over a long period of time. This is because this act by the government betrays the trust of the people that is initially given. Then in a direct attack on King George of Britain, Jefferson put and listed 20 instances when the king violated the natural rights of the American colonists which led them dissatisfied with the form of governance. Having thoroughly laid out his proof by several arguments and evidence that the king was a "tyrant" who was "unfit to be the ruler of a people," Jefferson continued on to condemn the British people and the way that these people manage the colonies. Jefferson believed that the British system was oppressive and did not allow the growth of the Americans by advocating equality. "These unfeeling brethren," he wrote, had reelected members of Parliament who had conspired with the tyrant king to destroy the rights of the colonists. Jefferson ended his draft of the declaration of independence by stating, "we do assert and declare these colonies to be free and independent states. . . ." When Thomas Jefferson submitted his proposed draft to the Congress of the United States on June 28, the delegates spent little time on the opening paragraphs of the draft, which today are the most famous parts of the Declaration of Independence. Instead, the men in Congress concentrated on Jefferson's list of grievances against King George and the British people. The delegates of the Congress made some small changes to improve the Declaration's clarity and accuracy so that it will be more understandable to the people. The Congress also ripped apart the last sections of the draft prepared by Jefferson, deleting about 25 percent of the entire written piece. The members of the Congress eliminated most of his harsh language directed against the British people and totally remove Jefferson's passionate assault on slavery and the slave trade. The removal of the section on slavery which was Jefferson's last grievance against the king probably resulted from objections ad protests done by Southern slave-holding delegates. However, the argument by Jefferson was weakened when he blamed the king alone for continuing the slave trade and then condemned him for offering freedom to slaves who joined the British in fighting the American rebels. The draft created by Jefferson was also influenced by a man named George Mason. Mason was a plantation owner in the state of Virginia. Mason wrote a phrase similar to the concept of "pursuit of happiness" in his written draft of "Virginia's Declaration of Rights." It is also said by some scholars that Jefferson was probably influenced by Dr. William Small as well. Dr. William Small is from Scotland. Small used to teach Thomas Jefferson for four years at the College of William and Mary. Jefferson greatly described his professor as a man with "an enlarged and liberal mind." With Jefferson's description of his professor, it could be inferred that Small had an influence over Jefferson. Thomas Jefferson mentioned about the Declaration that, "I did not consider it a part of my charge to invent new ideas." He instead said that his goal for writing the Declaration was "but to place before mankind the common sense of the subject." The constitutional and legal status of the Declaration of Independence is curiously ambiguous and not really certain. John Hancock (in his capacity as president of the Second Continental Congress) and James Madison both considered the Declaration of Independence to be, in Madison 's words, the fundamental Act of Union of the States. Reflecting that view regarding the declaration, Congress has placed it at the head of the United States Code, under the caption, The Organic Laws of the United States of America. The Supreme Court has infrequently accorded it binding legal force, for example, in resolving questions of alienage ( Inglis v. Trustees of Sailor's Snug Harbour , 1830). Yet lawyers generally, and the Supreme Court in particular, have been reluctant to treat the Declaration as part of American organic law, or even to accord it the restricted status of the Preamble to the Constitution. Conservatives like Daniel Webster denied that there is a constitutionally recognized right of revolution, and those state supreme courts that have addressed the issue in the twentieth century have adopted Webster's view. Reformers, such as antebellum abolitionists, insisted that the Declaration was part of the constitutional order, while their opponents, including John C. Calhoun, denigrated its authority and validity. The adoption of the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments allayed the urgency of that question by incorporating concepts of equality, freedom, and citizenship into the operative constitutional text. The constitutional and legal status of the Declaration of Independence is curiously ambiguous and not really certain. John Hancock (in his capacity as president of the Second Continental Congress) and James Madison both considered the Declaration of Independence to be, in Madison 's words, the fundamental Act of Union of the States. Reflecting that view regarding the declaration, Congress has placed it at the head of the United States Code, under the label, The Organic Laws of the United States of America. The Supreme Court has seldom accorded it binding legal force, for example, in resolving questions of alienage ( Inglis v. Trustees of Sailor's Snug Harbour , 1830). Without a certain and absolute binding force, it would still be legal if a Supreme Court decision would go against the principle of equality accorded by the Declaration of Independence. Yet lawyers generally, and the Supreme Court in particular, have been reluctant and not supportive in treating the Declaration as part of American organic law, or even to accord it the restricted status of the Preamble to the Constitution. Conservatives like the very famous Daniel Webster denied that there is a constitutionally recognized right of revolution, and those state supreme courts that have addressed the issue in the twentieth century have adopted Webster's view. conservatives would prefer to tolerate the existing status quo instead of supporting a revolution to topple the government. Reformers, such as antebellum abolitionists, insisted that the Declaration was part of the constitutional order, while their opponents, including John C. Calhoun, denigrated its authority and validity. The adoption of the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments recognized the urgency of that question by incorporating concepts of equality, freedom, and citizenship into the operative constitutional text.