INSTRUCTIONS FORBEGINNERS Ten Steps To SewingSuccess In today's fast paced world, life often feelslike an endless series of monotonous activities. Our livessometimes appear like part of a massive production line stampingout our cookie cutter existence. Cars look the same. Mostentertainment is the same old rehash. Our work is often dull andpointless. There is an alternative. A bright world full ofcolor, texture, and endless possibilities awaits those who wouldlearn to sew. Here are ten easy instructions for beginners insewing that will lead to an adventure full of creative expressionand personal gratification. We might call it Ten Steps To SewingSuccess. These tips will empower you to fully appreciate sewinginstruction. This instructions for beginners in sewing can makeyour life a dynamic adventure. 1. Imagine The Possibilities. The firstinstructions for beginners in sewing: Develop an eye for your owncreative expression. Whatever you can imagine, you can achieve.Look around you, what do you see? What if you added a bit of color,a new texture, a flash of freshness? The possibilities are endless,but this is just the first of our instructions for beginner insewing. Unless you can see the possibilities, they really do notexist. So, imagine how you can take your ordinary clothes (pants,shirts, jackets…) and transform them into amazing wearable art.Your own wearable art. Think of all the things you could make todecorate your home like table runners, pillows, curtains, lampshades, wall hangings, comforters, quilts… Let your imagination runwild. Explore. Experiment. Dream. Develop your passion for creatingbeauty all around you. 2. Find A Teacher. The second instructionsfor beginners in sewing is to learn the right ways first. Searchyour yellow pages for sewing machine dealers, fabric shops, sewingschools, and quilt shops. Wherever people who sew come together,you will find teachers ready to reveal the secrets of sewing. Thereare workshops, classes, sewing retreats, community classes, andeven colleges that teach sewing. Search the internet for articles,books, ebooks, and online classes. There are many ways to find yourteachers. Once you find your teacher, open your mind. Learneverything you can about sewing. Practice all the skills andtechniques. Soon you will know the thrill of creating your ownmarvels. 3. The Right Equipment: The third vitalinstructions for beginners in sewing is to get the right equipment.When you first start sewing, you might think to yourself, "I can'tafford to invest very much money in sewing equipment, because Imight not like sewing or follow through." You are exactly right.Investing in a hobby that you expect to do for only a week or twoor project or two, is foolish. The first thing you need to do isstep one above. Develop your passion, your desire, your interestfirst. Then the money you spend will well spent. As a beginner,what do you really need? At minimum, you will need a good,dependable, sewing machine that is easy to use and has a good setof convenience features. Do no settle for a cheap piece of junk. Ifyou see yourself sewing, see your self enjoying every sewingexperience. To do so means, avoid sewing equipment that is poorlymade, not locally supported (Classes, Repairs, Tech Support), or isdifficult to use. Expect to spend around a $1,000 for a good sewingmachine. You can find sewing machines for as little as $50, butthey are the quickest way to put an end to your sewing pursuits. Asyour hobby develops you may want to add a quality serger,embroidery machine, or blind hemmer. Always go with quality. 4. The Right Tools: The fourth instructionsfor beginners in sewing, involves getting all the right tools. Onceyou have a good sewing machine, you need to begin collecting allthe tools you will need for your sewing activities. Having theright tools makes any project easier and quicker. So what are thebasics that you need? You will need cutting tools (Scissors,trimmers, thread snips, embroidery scissors, rotary cutter, rotarycutting mat); measuring tools (cloth measuring tape, acrylicrulers, seam guides); and notions (pins, pin cushion, presser feet,stabilizers, needles, bobbins, thread, marking pens). Just any itemwill not do for your purposes. Think of it this way, if you aregoing to spend hours and hours creating something wonderful, youwant to avoid frustrations, maximize your time, and end up with abeautiful an durable result. For example, 8" bent handle sewingscissors or sheers are recommended by most sewing instruction andinstructions for beginners in sewing. There are probably, hundredsof different manufacturers of this particular product. An expertsewer will tell you, you can not go wrong with Gingher. Whatdifference does it make? More than you can imagine. Cheap scissorsare cheap for a reason. Always buy quality. If you have a question,check with the experts at your local sewing machine dealership. 5. Sew Simple. The fifth instructions forbeginners in sewing, focuses on the principle that success breadssuccess. Sewing instruction on basics is the first step toward truemastery. Simple, easy projects provide ample opportunity to masterbasic skills like sewing straight seams, curved seams, andhemming. 6. Celebrate Your Successes. The sixthinstructions for beginners in sewing, rises from the core ofthought and feelings. Unless we celebrate our successes, ourfailures and frustrations dominate. Therefore, every time youcomplete a project regardless how simple, celebrate yourachievement. Reward yourself for your creativity and success. Thiswill make all the sewing instruction pay huge dividends. The moresuccesses you celebrate, the more successes you will find tocelebrate. 7. Expand Your Skills. The seventhinstructions for beginners in sewing, involves stretching yourthinking and sewing experiences. Once you achieve success withsimple projects, set your eye on more challenging ones. Try new,different, and broader projects that enable your to increase yourskills. Every time you learn and master a new skill, whole newopportunities for creative expression emerge. 8 Share Your Successes. The eighthinstructions for beginners in sewing, embrace other people. Thesocial element of sewing is unmistakable. Sewing show and tells,quilting bees, and shared sewing experiences help sewers encourageeach other, inspire one another, and expand their horizonstogether. 9. Pursue More Advanced Projects. The ninthinstructions for beginners in sewing, raises expectations. Sewingprojects lead to mastery of basic skills. As projects require moreskill, they lead to greater possibilities. The challenge is tocontinually expand and refine your skills in the pursuit ofincreasingly more challenging projects. Gradually, beginners insewing become expert. 10. Life Of Creativity. The tenthinstructions for beginners in sewing, become a life long creator ofwonderful things. Make your world a better place. Fill your lifewith fabulous color, intriguing textures, and amazing creativewonders. Life a life of creativity. HANDSEWING When people think of sewing, many think of different things. In thebroadest sense, the term "Sewing" denotes the use of thread andneedle in a much wider range of activities and needle arts."Sewing" may be divided into two categories: 1. Hand Sewing Arts 2.Machine Sewing Arts. H and Sewing Arts Hand sewing arts are also described as needlework. They includeCrochet, Hand Embroidery, Knitting, Macrame', Rug Making, Tatting,Cross Stitch, and Hand Sewing. These arts have dominated sewing forthousands of years, and are considered to be traditional arts ofexcellence and beauty using threads and needles. Crochet Crochet is a needlework system of interlocking looped stitchesformed by a single hook and a single yarn for creating delicateopen designs. Crochet became popular almost four hundred years agoas a means to creating "American Lace". Today, crochet is atreasured heritage skill used for making items for home and familysuch as pot holders. When you look at a Crochet pattern, it may look a bit intimidating.It is full of strange letter combinations that require you masterthe Crochet code or language. For example, you will seeabbreviations for beginning as beg; block as bl; and cluster as cl.Not only do you need to master the code, you have a whole set ofterms, definitions, intricate designs, and skill sets to learn. Itis indeed a highly skilled art form. Actually doing crochet is a matter of using the hook or largeneedle to twist, wrap, insert, arrange, and otherwise hand loop asingle yarn to form a multitude of stitch patterns. Thecombinations form stitches described as half crochet, singlecrochet, double crochet, and treble crochet. The stitches arechained together in rows, joined, and expanded to form theinterlocking patterns. Different sized crochet hooks made ofvarious materials are also used for a variety of purposes. The endresult is an intricate design such as one of the afghan stitchpatterns (Basic, Cluster, Crossed Tunisian, Framed Squares, Mesh,Purl, etc.) There are hundreds of different patterns and variationsproducing truly amazing crochet art. Hand Embroidery Embroidery is a technique to embellish fabric using decorativethreads. Color, texture, and design become the artistic tools ofexpression with thread and needle. These techniques are commonlyapplied to borders, motifs, and elaborate designs on the face ofthe fabric. There are hundreds of different stitches used to createbeautiful effects. There are border stitches, design stitches, edgestitches, fill stitches, outline stitches, and more. There are special tools and materials used in this art form. Theyinclude a collection of needles including the crewel needle (shortneedle with long skinny eye in sizes from 1 to 12. Lower number islargest needle.), chenille needle (sizes 13 to 26), and tapestryneedles (sizes 13 to 26). Embroidery frames are used to stabilizethe fabric while it is being worked on. These come in many sizesfrom small lap circles to large free standing square frames.Fabrics may range from simple open mesh canvas to elaboratetapestry. Embroidery scissors both large and small are essentialfor cutting yarns and threads. A stiletto may be used to makeeyelet holes. A thimble is essential for protecting the finger fromthe sharp end of the needle when pushing through the fabric. Yarnsand threads of all kinds are used to create amazing color, texture,and design. Embroidery stitches may be classified by how they lay on a fabric.Flat stitches lay flat. Knotted stitches are more raised. Likedstitches offer an interlocking appearance. Looped stitches includethe blanket and feather stitches which offer a combination of flatand raised appearance. Hand embroidery stitches rival the mostadvanced sewing machines in complexity and number of differentstitches. As sheer artwork, hand embroidery is often considered superior tothe more modern machine embroidery. There are designs and featuresof hand embroidery that can and will probably never be reproducedthrough machine embroidery. Although, machine embroidery is muchfaster, hand embroidery is like painting by hand with thread andyarn. Hand Knitting Hand knitting is very similar to crochet in that it is a needleworksystem of interlocking looped stitches formed by using two (insteadof one hook as in crochet) large knitting needles and a single yarnfor creating delicate open designs. It has been traced back toabout 200AD from the region of modern day Arabia. Theory has itthat Arabian travelers such as sailors, traders, and adventurerstook this special skill with them and taught it to people whereverthey traveled. Knitting remains a popular fashion oriented needle art. Among themore common items made today include afghans, baby blankets,booties, and other novel heirloom items. Like crochet, knitting has a special code of its own. When youbegin looking at a knitting pattern for the first time, it lookslike long lists of gibberish. The code might look something likethis: inc R for increase to the right; psso for pass or pullslipped stitch over; or wyib for yarn to back of work. It takessome time to figure out all the details of the code, and evenlonger to master the intricate skill sets to make the almostlimitless stitches and patterns. Basically, the vast array of knitting stitches are variations oneither the basic knit stitch or the purl stitch. These variationsare applied in many different designs as well. Knitting needles are available in both an American and a Britishsystem of identification. In the British system, they run fromeighteen down to eight (18, 17, 16,…13,… 8). From the Britishthirteen to the British eight you have equivalent American sizezero to ten and a half 0,1,2,3,…). There are also circular needles,double pointed straight needles, jumper needles, and single pointstraight needles. Knitting yarn comes in a wide range of fibers (wool, cotton, silk,linen, synthetics), colors, textures, sizes, and twists. Each yarnoffers its own special uses and qualities. It is simplest, however,to simply follow the pattern for best results. Macrame' Macrame' is basically knot tying to produce fringe or coarse lacedesigned in a geometrical patterns. It has an uncertain origin, buthas been traced back to the Spain and France and even back toMiddle Eastern roots. A quick glance at macrame' and you may beconvinced that it is far too complicated to actually do or learn,but once the two basic knots are mastered, it is sometimesdescribed as the easiest of the needle arts. These two knots arethe square knot and the Half Hitch. The combination of these simpleknots quickly becomes an awe inspiring display with amazingresults. The materials used for macrame' are quite simple: yarns, cord,rope, pins, measuring tape, pins, pinning board, rubber bands,glue, and crochet hook for occasional poking and twisting. Thisneedle art certainly reminds one of the exceptional knot tyingskills of sailors. Rug Making Rug making is an application needle art to a specific practicalemphasis: making floor coverings. This art form taps many differentskills and techniques including Braiding, Crochet, Embroidery,Hooking, Knitting, and Knotting. You are likely to have one ofthese art forms in your home right now. We have an embroidered rugin our family room. We also have a braided rug in our kitchen. Fabric for rug making may be made by cutting long strips of fabric,tearing the strips, or purchasing the precut rolls of fabric. Thewidth of the fabric will in large part determine the size of yourhooking and knots. The narrower the fabric the smaller the hooking,and the wider the fabric gives you larger hooking. Tatting Tatting is needlework using shuttle and thread to make loops andknots to create gorgeous lace. My grandmother was an expert attatting. She would sit for hours creating the most delicate lacefor table coverings, lace collars, and all manner of other laceitems. I remember being awestruck at how complicated it all seemed.Later, I was assured that if you learn the basic stitch, everythingelse comes automatically. Cross Stitch Cross stitch is like embroidery in that it embellishes fabrics, butcross stitch uses special cloth called ida cloth with specificcount weave. This fabric allows the cross stitch artist to createdesigns, drawings, and images with cross stitch. Cross Stitch has become highly popular for producing wall hangingswith wise sayings and interesting eye catching designs. Crossstitch may be seen framed much like an ordinary photo or in a hoopwhich serves as a homey touch. While many attempts have been made to imitate cross stitch usingcomputer software, many people prefer the look and feel oftraditional hand stitching. I frequently hear comments like, I loveto cross stitch because I can relax in my rocker and stitch away,and when I am done everyone love my product. Hand Sewing And Hand Quilting Perhaps the most versatile needle art is hand sewing and handquilting. Not only does it offer highly practical applications, italso offers great beauty and decorative applications. Clothingconstruction and embellishment have long been a primary focus ofhand sewing. Home decorating, pillows, soft furniture covers,draperies, and other projects have also been popular applications.Quilting is also a part of sewing in which fabrics are joined,layered, and quilted (sewn together). Hand sewing and hand quilting involve many special tools forcutting, layout, measuring, and stitching. Special hand sewingneedles are used for hundreds of different stitches and theirapplications. Scissors, snips, and seam rippers are vital tools.Tape measures and rulers make measuring easy. Quilters find thatquilt frames or wooden frames are useful for holding fabrics stableduring the quilting process. All of these activities and traditional needle arts may bedescribed as handwork or Hand Sewing Arts. The Straight Stitch The straight stitch may be adjusted for stitchlength to create fine, medium, and long straight stitches. Thelongest straight stitch is called a basting stitch. When you addwidth to the straight stitch, you create the zig zag stitch. Longzig zag stitches form zig zag basting stitches. When the zig zagstitch is shortened very short so that the threads lie flat againsteach other, it forms a satin stitch. To sew a satin stitch, it is essential to use a satin stitchpresser foot. The standard zig zag stitch presser foot has a ridgethat catch on threads if the threads begin to bunch up. The satinstitch presser foot has a groove on the bottom of the foot topermit the stitches to neatly flow under the presser foot withoutbecoming bunched up or snagged by the presser foot. Adjust the satin stitch by adjusting the stitch length. Adjust the stitches to a fine satin layer ofthreads. If the stitch length is too tight, the fabric may not moveat all or the threads may overlap leaving a lumpy lookingstitch. If the stitch length is too long, you will seespaced between the treads. The goal is for the threads to line upneatly side by side forming a satin line of stitches. Guide the fabric for all stitches in the same way. Place the fabricabout one half inch under the presser foot. Place your guide hand (right hand) along the edge ofthe fabric in order to guide the fabric accurately. Place or smoothing hand (left hand) on the top ofthe fabric to the left and in front of the needle to keep thefabric lying flat and flowing smoothly. Allow the sewing machine to drivethe fabric through the machine. When sewing curves with a satin stitch, remembernot to turn too sharply. A gradual run will keep the satin stitchfrom leaving spaced between the threads. It may be necessary toslightly shorten the stitch length if you are find too many openspaces between threads along curves. SEWING A ROLLEDHEM A rolled hem is a hem created by use of a specialrolled hem presser foot on a serger or sewing machine. You feed thefabric through the guide in the foot. The foot actually rolls thefabric over in preparation for sewing. As the fabric is fed throughthe rolled hem foot it is top stitched in place creating a verynarrow hem that can be used on dozens of different projects: tablecloths, scarves, garments, linings, ruffles, etc. The finished hemwill be between one and six millimeters wide depending on the sizeof the specialized presser foot and the thickness of thefabric. Follow these simple guidelines toperfect rolled hems. 1. You must have a good sewing machine (orserger) and its rolled hem foot. 2. Prepare your sewing by cleaning the work areamaking it free of debris and anything that might snag the fabricwhile you sew. Clean away any lint from the bobbin area, and makesure the machine is properly threaded. 3. Install the Rolled Hem Presser Foot. Differentbrands and models offer different sized rolled hem feet. You mayactually have only one or two or three different sizes that fityour machine. If you have more than one size select the one bestsuited to your project. If for any reason you do not have a rolledhem foot, you may purchase a generic one. Take one of your regularfeet with you so your sewing specialist can match your machineappropriately. When you examine the rolled hem foot you will noticea turned piece of metal that looks like a scroll. This actuallyhelps turn the fabric in preparation for sewing. Under the presserfoot, you will notice a groove that allows the rolled hem to easilypass under the presser foot after it is sewn. 4. Select a straight stitch appropriate forRolled Hem Presser Foot. Note: many machines allow you to sew astraight stitch in multiple positions (left, center, right, inbetween). Make certain that your machine stitch is lined upproperly with the needle hole in the Rolled Hem Presser Foot. Anarrow zig zag setting may also be used if desired, but make surethat it fits your presser foot. 5. Normal tension settings are recommended unlessyou have recently changed the size of the thread you are using forthe project. If you are changing the size of thread, you will needto adjust accordingly. Larger thread means decreasing tensions alittle. Smaller thread means increase tension settings a little.After your sew your test seam, you may need to readjust yourtensions for perfect stitch balance. 6. Match Needle and Thread to the project. Sincemost rolled hems are sewn on delicate to medium weight fabrics, youwill likely use a size 8 (delicate) to a size 12 (medium heavy)needle. The thread may be a fine long fiber polyester embroiderytype thread or a natural thread matched to the fabric type. Forsuper delicate fabrics use size 60 threads, and for medium fabricsuse size 50 threads. 7. Adjust the stitch length to medium fordelicate fabric and a bit longer for medium weight fabrics. On yoursewing machine, your stitch length adjusting knob will havesettings ranging from 0 Fine to 4 or more. The larger the numberthe longer the stitch and fewer stitches per inch. STITCH LENGTH SETTINGS SETTING MM SPI 0 0.5 60 (fine setting) 1 1 24 2 Delicate 2 13 3 3 9 4 Medium 4 6 5 5 5 6 6 4 Setting is the adjustment on your stitchselector. MM stands for Millimeters on the MetricScale. SPI stands for Stitches Per Inch. 8. ALWAYS TEST FIRST. You may be an expert, andthinking to yourself, "I already know how to do all of this." Butone mistake can ruin a whole project, unless your are careful todouble check "all is well" first. To Test follow steps 9-20 on apiece of scrap fabric of the same type as you are using in yourproject. If you have problems, during the test, fix beforeproceeding. It will save lots of heartache later. When your test isjust right, proceed to use your project fabric and complete steps 9and following. 9. Trim the edge to be hemmed. Remove any looseand especially any already frayed threads from the edge of thepiece. Whenever possible align the fabric to be edge along itslengthwise grain. This will make a better hem than on cross grainor bias of the fabric. 10. Lay the fabric for hemming right side down(wrong side up). Position the fabric so the insertion will be tothe right and the bulk of the fabric lies to your left. 11. Prepare the fabric for insertion into thepresser foot. Your goal is to produce the smallest possible hem.Tightly fold over the edge of the fabric two times. Make thefinished fold the same size as the guide on the presser foot. Youmay use a pin to hold the fold in place, or proceed withoutpinning. 12. Using your right hand, roll the hand wheeltoward you until the needle is at its highest position. 13. With the folded fabric held tightly, lift thepresser foot and slide the folded fabric under it. Lower thepresser foot to hold the fabric in place. 14. Roll the hand wheel forward some more untilthe needle penetrates the fabric to hold it in place. 15. Lift the presser foot, and remove any pinsyou may have near the presser foot. Slide the folded fabric intothe shaped scroll guide of the foot. 16. Lower the presser foot and prepare tosew. 17. Take thread trails in your left hand and holdthem to the left and behind the needle to prevent their messing upyour hem. 18. Take hold the edge of the fabric rolling thefabric over your thumb. Gently, feed and guide it through therolled hem presser foot scroll guide as you sew. 19. Periodically adjust your fabric using bothhands and guide it through the foot. Smooth the fabric with yourleft hand preventing clumps and mounds. Guide the fabric with yourright hand. This will take some practice to keep just the rightamount of fabric flowing and at the proper turn. a. Take care to avoid the unfolding of thefabric, because this will expose the raw edge of thefabric. b. Also avoid stuffing (feeding too much) fabric,because this may cause the excess to bulge or peek through theedge. 20. It never hurts to stop and make repairsmidstream. a. If you find that for any reason, your hem isjust falling apart, looking really bad; stop. Roll the hand wheelto raise the needle to its highest position. Lift the presser foot,and draw back about a quarter inch to an inch of hem. Take out thebad, and reset to sew in the good. b. If the problem is not yet stitched in(unfolding ahead of the needle), set your needle down to hold thehem in place. Lift the presser foot and make appropriateadjustments. Reset and go again. 