Dogsadopted from shelters are often referred to as shelter dogs orpound puppies; dogs adopted from rescue organizations are oftencalled rescue dogs. Shelters have put together informationalwebsites to help the public choose the right dog for theirfamily. Pets are taken to animal shelters for manyreasons. Breeding: Breeders are a leading cause ofoverpopulation because they usually produce more pets than they cansell and often produce pets that do not fit their desired breedingspecifications, and must be gotten rid of. Death: Owner dies and no one in the familywants to (or can) keep the pet. Changed circumstances: Financial or livingarrangements change drastically and people feel that they can nolonger provide an appropriate home for the pet. This might alsoinclude someone having to move to a new living situation where petsare not allowed.

Second thoughts: A pet was purchased after thespur of the moment decision or as a gift (frequently forChristmas). Some time afterward, owners discover that caring forthe pet is much more work than expected, or requires more space orexercise than they are prepared to give. Lost pet: Pet leaves home or cannot find itsway back, and the owner does not succeed in finding it. Health: Severe health problems make itimpossible to have a dog in the house or impossible for the ownerto care for the dog. Practice babies: Shelters use this term foranimals that have been adopted by couples, and who are thenabandoned when the couple splits up, or when a real baby comesalong and they no longer have the time or inclination to care fortheir pet. Moving across borders: People leave thecountry; quarantine laws in some countries can be traumatic to petsand owners, so to avoid the stress, the pet is surrendered to ananimal shelter. Allergies: Many owners claim to have developedallergies to their pets, or that their children have developedallergies to their pets.

These are some of the many ways in which peopledeal with a dog they can't cope with. However there are some evenmore extreme actions that take place. Some people have their peteuthanized also known as having them put down. Many veterinarianswill no longer agree to do this as it is considered to be anunethical use of their resources unless the animal is old an inpain. Others argue that euthanasia is a more humane option thanleaving a pet in a cage for very long periods of time but this isridiculous.

If an animal is going to haveto be kept in a cage for a long time, their owner should not havetried to get a pet that requires so much care. All animals deserveto live their lives in adherence to their basic needs. For dogsthis is frequent exercise and a home that can provide the propermental stimulation. Other people simply release the pet into thewild or otherwise abandon it, with the expectation that it will beable to take care of itself or that it will be found and adopted.More often, these pets succumb to hunger, weather, traffic, orcommon and treatable health problems.

To leave a dog, that camehome expecting to live with you and be loved by you, alone in thewild desperately trying to feed itself and find somewhere warm tosleep is the most appalling lack of basic morality. But not onlythat it is an insult to your dog, the one you chose but gave up onwhen it got too hard. This is unacceptable whatever the situation.There are always other options open to a caring dog owner. Somepeople euthanize pets because of terminal illnesses or injuries,while others even do it for common health problems that theycannot, or will not, pay for treating. More responsible owners willtake the pet to a shelter, or call a rescue organization, where itwill be cared for properly until a home can be found. Homes cannotalways be found, however, and euthanasia is often used for theexcess animals to make room for newer pets, unless the place has ano-kill policy. The Humane Society of the United States estimatesthat 3-4 million dogs and cats are euthanized each year in the USbecause of a lack of homes.

Animal protection advocates urge peopleto spay or neuter their pets and to adopt instead of buying animalsin order to reduce the number of animals who have to beeuthanized.

This isso important, the campaign to spay and neuter your pets is tryingdesperately to reduce the terrible over population problems withcats and dogs. This huge over population leads to the millions ofdogs that are put down every year because there is just not enoughroom for them in shelters. No Kill shelters and the problems theyface However some people are trying really hard toget the practice of euthanasia stopped and this is why new shelterswith a more welfare orientated outlook are beginning to popup.

There is a wide variety of places to adopt a dog from.First and foremost so called no kill shelters should be consideredat the first point of call for any prospective dog owner. Theseplaces offer an excellent level of care for the dogs that areentrusted to them and are much more moral than shelters that killabandoned dogs after a couple of weeks or less.

The central issue inthe adoption of a pet is whether a new owner can provide a safe,secure, permanent home for the pet. Many shelters, pounds, andrescue organizations refuse to supply animals to people whom theyjudge cannot supply the animal with a suitable home. A new owner migh t alsoface training challenges with a pet who has been neglected orabused. In those cases, the owner must be extra patient with theanimal and provide it with the right care to help the pet overcomethe past. One problem shelters are fighting to overcomeis what they term "Big Black Dog syndrome". Big black dogs (BBDs)are consistently the hardest dogs to place even if they refriendly, well trained, and in perfect health. This may be due to anumber of factors, including fear stigma against certain breedtypes, attraction to ads and the fact that black dogs do notphotograph as well as lighter coated ones, and the fact that blackdogs are often portrayed as aggressive in film and on television.Organizations have started campaigns to educate the public aboutBBD syndrome.

Choosing a dog that's right for you One of the most important things, if not the most importantthing, to think about is the breed of dog you wish to get. Thereare huge differences in bringing up different breeds of dog andthis can really change the way you relate to your dog. It's veryimportant that you get a dog that fits well with your lifestyle asyou don't want to end up adding to the abandoned dog problem.

Somedog breeds have a much higher exercise requirement than others.There are also dog breeds that need a lot more mental fulfillmentand therefore require their owners to make a significant effort totrain them to a high level. This will ensure that your dog doesn'tturn to frustrated behavior such as chewing and digging up thelawn.

Adopting a dogmeans choosing the correct type of dog for you as the first step.You will have to decide whether you want a dog that is large orsmall according to the space available to you. You may want anactive companion that loves to go hiking or a gentle one that iscontented to sit in your lap and be petted regularly. There aredogs with long fur that look cute or the smooth-coated ones thatshed very little. Guardian dogs need to be stronger and moreintelligent whilst family dogs need to be cute and gentle andeasily sociable. Hundreds of breeds of dogs are available foradoption but you should be careful to choose the one that suitsyour personality type.

Here are some things to keep in mind, beforeyou adopt a dog: Consider the size of your dog according tothe size of your house. Flats, unit houses and farmhouses may allbe suitable for different breeds. Urban and suburban areas are more suitablefor particular breeds while rural and semi-rural areas arepreferable for others. The purpose for adopting the dog. Some dogsare so sociable that they are contented to keep quiet whenstrangers come into the house, while some breeds are merelythreatening with barking but rarely bite.

Some other breeds arequite dangerous and can attack any stranger savagely. While choosing a dog, keep in mind that youhave a yard at home or not. Preferable length of coat of the dog. Smoothcoated ones such as Basset Hound, dogs with short coat such asGerman Shepherd, medium coated ones such as Cocker Spaniel orlong-coated ones such as Maltese, all have different looks and aresuitable for different weather conditions. Long coated dogs inwarmer regions need to be kept cool constantly by air-conditioning,while smooth-coated ones in cold countries will need warming up,thus, increasing their maintenance cost. The number of dogs and cats that you alreadyown, for this will determine how social and adjustable a dog youmight need. The level of grooming needed for thedog.

Is the dog contented to be chained or staywithin the property limits or is a natural wanderer. The price of the dog and its dailymaintenance cost. The daily exercise that the dog breed needson a regular basis. The age group and the fitness level of thedog owner and the main dog sitter. The toy or small dogs such as Pekingese,medium dogs such as Cocker Spaniel and large dogs such as GermanShepherd Giant and St. Bernard have all their exclusiveuses. People with oldies, invalid people or kids athome must choose a dog that will not be a problem for themlater. The time you can spend with your dog and itsneed of companionship. The training level, fitness level, age andhealth of the dog.

If you're thinking of adopting a dog one thing you couldconsider is adopting an ex racing greyhound. These dogs have oftenbeen overworked and not properly cared for leaving them indesperate need for a loving home. This is slowly changing due tothe hard work of the Greyhound adoption movement.

Adopting from ashelter is still a very low cost way to acquire a dog but its notcompletely free. If you find a dog and the shelter approves yourapplication, there will be an adoption fee or donation. Adoptioncosts vary, depending on location and whether the dog needs to bespayed or neutered. Shelters need to charge an additional fee forany spaying or neutering they perform to recover some of theircosts. For example, the Washington Humane Society, which operatesthe District of Columbias animal shelter, charges $35 to adopt adog whos already spayed or neutered, and $135 for one who needs theprocedure. The Madison County Humane Society in Anderson, Indiana,charges $100 for all dog adoptions, and states on its website thatthe fee includes the cost of spaying and neutering.

On the westcoast, Sacramento (California) County Animal Care and Regulationcharges a variety of fees, depending on the gender and spay/neuterstatus of a dog. An unspayed female costs between $106 and $126,plus $15 extra for a heartworm test. An intact male costs between$96 and $111, not including the $15 heartworm fee. Spayed femalesand neutered males each cost $50 less.

All of the costs associated withadopting a dog go towards ensuring first an foremost that therescue shelter can stay open and continue doing the good work theydo. Also the more money that's charged the more complex theadoption process is likely to be. This is not a bad thing and justmakes sure that any dog that's adopted is going to the best homepossible. This step tries to guarantee that no dog ever has toreturn to the rescue center and once placed with a family staysthere for good. It's incredible stressful not just for the dogs butfor the volunteers at the shelter if a wonderful dog keeps comingback because of a bad fit. By adding these costs and a detailedadoption process this is rarely a problem.