Jobs in Michigan (blog post) When I moved to Michigan at the beginning of 2009, I began the adventure of a lifetime. My first step away from home and I was way across the other side of the country from family, alone and without a job. All I had was savings that, with pinching every penny, should last me for six months; the lion's share of it went to renting a dingy room in a dingier part of town. I had no special feeling for the place, no connections; I'd never been there before. I guess it just seemed like a good idea at the time. I'd jumped, with eyes wide open, into the deepest part of the pool of adult life I could find, now I had six months to learn how to swim. Or crawl, sopping wet, back home.

I guess it was easier knowing that I did have that fallback, should I need it. So my first task, obviously, was to get a job. The job market in Michigan is ever-changing and, at times, unpredictable. But that still doesn't say what they could do, and did, for me. If anyone's still reading after all that marketing hype, (sorry for inserting it, but it does go to show what Michigan Works is, and why it is so unique in the country,) then we'll get on to the real nitty-gritty. What Michigan Works! did for me.

Since local Michigan Works! Agencies each serve a geographical area within the state, their size ranges from 10 counties in Northwest Michigan to single counties such as Ottawa, Livingston, Washtenaw, and Oakland. All of these Agencies oversee a wide variety of programs designed to help workers find and keep good jobs, and help employers recruit and hire skilled workers. Each Michigan Works!

Agency is governed by a Workforce Development Board appointed by local elected officials. The Chair of the Board comes from the private sector, and a majority of the Board members must represent the private sector. Other members of the Board represent community based organizations, labor, education, social services, and vocational rehabilitation. Board members must serve their companies or agencies at a level that permits them to make decisions and commitments on behalf of their employer. The key point to remember, is that Michigan Works!

Agencies do not directly provide services to employers and job seekers. They oversee service providers who are selected through a competitive bidding process to best meet the workforce needs of their local area. This means the services are available at the local Michigan Works! Services Centers varies. The primary services available through every Michigan Works! Agency are Michigan's Talent Bank, an automated labor exchange service for employers and job seekers; services to adults, youth, and dislocated workers through the Workforce Investment Act of 1998; a broad range of welfare reform program services, including Work First; and School-to-Work programs for young people.

In addition to these, and other, jobseeker and employer services, most of the Michigan Works! Service Centers also provide information about child care services, public transportation, and other relevant services. The child care services I, obviously, was not too interested in, but it was useful to learn how to get about without a car of my own, which I could not, then, afford. You can see for yourselves which other services I wanted to take advantage of. And to give you an idea of the range of the services on offer, I've listed a small selection here.

On a different vein, th e Thumb Area Michigan Works! A gency has adopted a "tool chest" philosophy and logo as its trademark. The tool chest icon represents the personal package of skills and talents one has or is working on in order to get the best possible employment opportunity. The tool chest system adapts itself to each person as a way of highlighting their employability and skill strengths. The tool chest system also offers certain "scholarship-style" funding to aide in helping one build their job attaining potential.

They also offer one-hour career consulting sessions, for specialized one-on-one assistance, as well as a series of personal/professional development workshops, covering areas such as t eamwork, leadership, technology, motivation change and problem solving.

All of the above, I took full advantage of. I wasn't particularly interested in further education, unless it could guarantee me a job. I wanted to work, so that I wouldn't need to go crawling back home with my (soaking wet) tail tucked 'tween my legs.

The Job Show is a cable TV tradition that has been running for more than two decades. The Job Show includes a broad range of topics. Each month the Job Show talks to workers, bosses, government officials, trendsetters, or other experts in their field to keep you informed about the latest issues that matter to you. The Job Show airs information on: Employment prospects in Michigan New programs and services to help workers, employers and students Economic development Unemployment insurance The Job Show is intended to provide information to all parts of the job market, including employers, jobseekers, students and parents, CEOs, and human resources executives. Through the Job Show, you can find out about everything from u pgrades and improvements to the unemployment insurance system, to h ow to land a job in one of the hottest careers in Michigan, and s hifts in the job market and the economy. The very first program I caught was about "Investing in Workplace Ability". It went into such details as how i nvestments in workplace health and safety programs yield positive results for both Michigan employees and employers. And also revealed how companies partnering with MIOSHA achieve better workplace safety and also improve their financial bottom line.

Sounds fascinating, doesn't it? It was, in fact, a lot more boring than it sounds; at least, to me less than two weeks after I moved to Michigan. As time passed, and I began to realize how useful their information could be, their programs got considerably more interesting. So, how did I put it all together?

What did I really get out of the Michigan Works! For a start, they gave me a list to help me figure out what I really wanted. This is the short form. So, how did it go for me?

What jobs are available? What jobs did I apply for? How many interviews did I get? And did I, after all this, actually get a job? I think you can guess the answer to that last one, so the follow-up question is probably more interesting. How long did it take? I'll start at the beginning.

What jobs are there in Michigan? What jobs are there anywhere? You can pretty much guarantee that the job you're trained for exists in Michigan, just as it exists in all the other States. The only issue is whether or not they are hiring today. But that's also the same issue you'll have anywhere else. What jobs did I apply for? I have no idea. Everything except brain surgery and judge, I think.

That's what you do when looking for work. Apply for everything you think you're qualified for, and then apply for everything that doesn't require professional qualifications you don't have. And sometimes you even apply for them.

Need experience you don't have? Need skills you don't know? Learn them on the job. A friend said it best: apply, and let them decide whether you're right for the job or not; don't make that choice for them by not applying.

So I applied for everything. Among them--Facilities Maintenance Coordinator, Accounts Payable Clerk, Training opportunities, Sales Manager, Laundry Attendant, Independent Contractor selling cosmetics. Yes, I even applied to be the Avon Lady. I didn't get it. Not as many as I wanted, and the first one was atrocious.

I flubbed that one big time. I never had enough to get comfortable with them, but you only need one that works. That one I finally got. Oh, and a word about responses. Don't expect any.

It might seem only polite to send a message to all applicants saying "Thanks, but we hired someone else", but almost nobody does that. In most cases, you'll only hear back if you got an interview. So don't sit around waiting for responses that aren't coming, just apply to another job. The first job I actually got, was Laundry Attendant. Not what I wanted, and not a job I intended to keep long, but it was enough to keep me in Michigan, and pay my bills, while I continued my search for my ideal job. How long did it take?

Almost five months. When I was beginning to run low on money and starting to wonder if I'd have to go back home. Now I am home, in Michigan, and have just started my dream job, after three years and as many short-term jobs. I am now a Program Analyst.