So what isWeb Hosting? For people to actually view your pages onthe web, you must have your files located on a "web server". Whenthey visit your site, what they are actually doing is viewing thosefiles. You can rent a little bit of space on the web server, or ifyour site is large, rent an entire server for your site. Eachserver is assigned an IP address. This is a four number addressthat is separated by dots.

i.e. 127.0.0.1 Every domain nameactually points to an IP address and this is how visitors accessyour files on the web server. Once your site is hosted on a webserver, itcan be viewed by any computer in the world through a web browser.All they need to do is type in your domain name to view your webpages. Your site must be hosted on a web server before it will beavailable to external visitors.

And what is a Web Host ? A Web Host is a company that owns andmaintains webservers with the purpose of hosting web sites. Yourent space from these companies and in return they will maintainand service the server. Part of this entails keeping the serversoftware current, applying any security patches and ensuring thesite is always available, known as 'uptime'. To achieve peakperformance, these servers are normally housed in specialist'datacenters' with dedicated high speed connections to ensure thatwebsite loading speeds are as high as possible. A lot of webhosting companies will rent space in a large datacenter to savecosts. Web Host companies come in all shapes andsizes, from large multinational telecommunications companies to joebloggs down the street with a server in their office.

A number ofweb hosting companies will include a lot of other services to makethem a one-stop shop to get yourself on the web. This could includedomain name registration which ensures your domain name will pointto the correct IP address as soon as the name is registered. If youregister your domain name with a different company you will need tospecify the IP address of your hosting server before anyone is ableto view your files. Types of Web Hosting Shared Hosting Shared hosting means your site will behosted on a web server that is also hosting a number of otherwebsites at the same time. The server disk space and serverresources, i.e.

RAM, data transfer is divided up between thevarious clients. Although your site is located on a shared server,your files are still secure and can not be viewed by anyone elsewho also has their site on that web server. As well as sharing the server resources, allthe websites also share the same IP. This can be important in somecases as some websites can get banned by search engines forimproper behaviour such as SPAM or illegal activities. When awebsite is banned, the search engine will block the IP addresswhich means all the other sites on the web server may also beaffected. It is therefore important to ensure that the web hostingcompany careful monitors the activities of the websites they hostor state what kind of sites are appropriate for thatserver.

Virtual Private Server Hosting Virtual Private Servers (VPS) share some ofthe same characteristics as shared hosting but it provides you witha bit more control over your own destiny. Like shared hosting, aweb server is divided up and the server's resources are splitbetween the clients. What makes this different is that eachpartition is given its own IP address and generally, there are avery limited amount of users on each server, ensuring that you geta good share of the server's resources.

Dedicated Hosting Dedicated Hosting means that the entire webserver is 'dedicated' to one website, or one client. A client canhost a number of their own websites if they choose to do so. Thebenefits of this are that you control the server, and can beassured that no one else is doing anything on their website thatwill affect your site. It also means that all the systems resourcesare geared to your site which will boost the speed and reliabilityof your site. On the downside, having your own dedicated serverincurs a much bigger investment and you are responsible forensuring that the server is always running. This can be a great option if you run alarge site that will cover these costs and you have the technicalexpertise to manage the server.