What is Equal Employment Opportunity? Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) gives all people the right to be considered for any job for which they are skilled and qualified, ensuring that the best person for the job is employed. EEO is based on the principle of recruiting and promoting people on merit. EEO also promotes a working environment free from harassment of any kind, and access for all staff to job-related opportunities, eg. training and development, promotion and reclassification. The Merit Principle Merit is the basis of equal employment opportunity in Australia. The merit principle aims to ensure that the best person for the job is employed. It gives all people the right to be considered for a job on the basis of their abilities, qualifications, experience, and standard of work performance. What are EEO groups? Particular groups of people have traditionally been disadvantaged in employment, because of discriminatory laws, rules, employment practices, stereotypes and attitudes. NSW legislation defines these groups, sometimes referred to as 'EEO groups', as Indigenous Australians people who speak a first language other than English women people with a disability The University has a legal obligation to eliminate discrimination and harassment and to promote equality of opportunity for members of EEO groups. What is Affirmative Action? Members of EEO groups may not have had equal access to job opportunities or training and development for reasons such as past discrimination or prejudice, different educational experience, or being locked into low opportunity jobs. Affirmative Action (AA) strategies aim to redress these past disadvantages and improve employment outcomes for people from EEO groups. The principle of Affirmative Action acknowledges that equal treatment may not produce equal outcomes; differential treatment may be required to achieve real equity. Examples of Affirmative Action at UTS include the Wingara Strategy to promote Indigenous employment; the inpUTS Educational Access Scheme and the Women@UTS Program. What is discrimination? Discrimination means noting the difference between things. We discriminate every day when we make choices. For example, if you were buying a car, you would need to factor in your budget, the make and model of the car, and so on. Discrimination is not always wrong but some discrimination is unfair and can be against the law. It is unlawful to discriminate against people because of their personal characteristics or because they belong to a certain group. Equal opportunity is a positive way of describing the absence of discrimination. People are provided with equal opportunity if they are not discriminated against because of irrelevant characteristics. This section outlines the types of discrimination that are against the law and where unlawful discrimination can occur. EO for business employers In today's competitive economic environment promoting equality and avoiding discrimination is everyone's business. No business can afford to ignore it. Being an equal opportunity employer can also help your business perform better. If you are an employer of any kind - a service provider, corporation, shop, restaurant or retailer, landlord, club or association - you have a responsibility to your staff, customers, tenants and those under your care. Whatever kind of business you are in, this section gives you practical information to help you meet your legal obligations and promote fairness at work. By taking simple steps, you can prevent discrimination and harassment in your business, and save time, money and your reputation. You can also improve staff relations and customer satisfaction. The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, as part of an ongoing effort to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of its operations, established the Federal Sector Workgroup, which was composed of representatives from offices throughout the Commission. The Workgroup focused on the effectiveness of the EEOC in enforcing the statutes that prohibit workplace discrimination in the federal government: section 717 of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits discrimination against applicants and employees based on race, color, religion, sex and national origin; section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, which prohibits employment discrimination on the basis of disability; section 15 of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, which prohibits employment discrimination based on age; and the Equal Pay Act, which prohibits sex-based wage discrimination. 