There are twenty-seven States in Brazil, plus the Federal District which hosts the capital city, Brasilia. The Amazonas state has the greatest area ( being similar in size to Mongolia) while the Federal District is the smallest and about the size of Brunei. Brazil occupies a huge area along the eastern coast of South America and embraces much of the continent's interior region too. It has common land borders with Uruguay to the south, Argentina and Paraguay to the southwest; Bolivia and Peru to the west; Colombia to the northwest - and Venezuela, Suriname, Guyana and the overseas department of French Guiana to the north too. The nation's topography is likewise widely diverse. It includes hills, mountains, plains, highlands, and scrub land. Much of Brazil lies between 660 feet and 2,600 feet above sea level. The main upland area occupies almost all of the southern land mass. The northwest area of the plateau comprises broad, rolling terrain broken by a series of low, rounded hills.The southeastern section is more rugged, with a complex mass of ridges and mountain ranges reaching elevations of up to 3,900 feet. Towards the north, the Guiana Highlands separates the rivers that flow south into the Amazon Basin from those that empty into Venezuela to the north. In fact, Brazil has a dense and complex system of rivers. Major ones include the Amazon - the largest river in terms of volume and the second-longest in the world - and the Paran and its major tributary, the Igua u River famous for the Igua u Falls . Climate The climate of Brazil comprises a wide range of weather conditions according to its varied topography - although the largest part of the country is tropical. In all, there are five major climatic subtypes, namely equatorial, tropical, semiarid, highland tropical, and temperate. Plant life varies from equatorial rainforests in the north and semi-arid deserts in the northeast, to temperate coniferous forests in the south and tropical savannas in central area. The equatorial climate that predominates means that there is no real dry season generally, although there are some periods when more rain falls. Temperatures average 25 Celsius, and temperature variations are more marked between night and day, than between the different seasons. Across central Brazil, the rainfall tends to be more seasonal though as is characteristic of a savanna climate. In the interior northeastern zone, the seasonal rainfall is even more extreme. Less rain falls in the semi-arid area that receives less than 31 inches of rain in an entire year - most of which falls in a period of three to five months creating long periods of drought between. South of Bahia, near Sao Paulo, the rainfall pattern changes once again. Now, some appreciable rainfall occurs in all twelve months. The climate is temperate, with cooler temperatures and quite cool winters. In fact, frosts are quite common, with occasional snowfalls in the higher areas. Wildlife As to be expected, the different ecosystems sustain some of the world's greatest biodiversity of creatures. However much remains still largely unexplored. It's estimated that the total number of plant and animal species in Brazil could approach four million. Larger mammals include pumas , jaguars, ocelots, rare bush dogs , and foxes. Peccaries, tapirs, anteaters, sloths, opossums, and armadillos are abundant. Deer are plentiful in the south too, as are monkeys of many species that abound in the rain forests to the north. This natural heritage is under threat from cattle ranching and agriculture generally, as well as logging, mining,human resettlement, oil and gas extraction, over-fishing, trade in wildlife, infrastructural development, and invasive plant species. The Jesuits built their first missions in Salvador and in Sao Paulo dos Campos de Piratininga, that was to become the city of Sao Paulo later.The success of the Jesuits in converting the indigenous peoples to Catholicism is linked to their capacity to understand the native culture, specially their language. They often gathered them into communities where they worked for the greater good and were evangelized. During this time, the Jesuits continued to battle the spread of slavery and saved many people from it. The Sugarcane Era (1530-1700) After early attempts to find gold and silver failed, the colonists shifted to an economy that was based on agricultural exports to Europe. These included tobacco, cotton, and cachaça (a liquor made from fermented sugarcane juice ) although sugarcane was to become by far the most important Brazilian colonial product through to the early 18th century. It was grown on large patches of cleared land, harvested and then milled and the sugar refined. Over time, the term engenho was applied to the entire sugarcane farm. Initially, local native slaves did the physical work. However, perhaps on account of their rebellious nature, the Portuguese soon began importing black African slaves instead. Trade with the rest of the world was restricted too, the idea being that Brazil was to do commerce only with the mother country and its other colonial acquisitions. Even though Brazilian sugar was reputed to be of high quality, the industry faced a crisis during the 17th and 18th centuries when the Dutch and the French started to produce sugar in the Antilles, located much closer to Europe, causing sugar prices to fall and a degree of recession. Birth of the Quilombos The early sugarcane plantations - in northeastern Brazil especially - relied heavily on slave labor mainly from African. As early as the 17th Century these slaves began organizing themselves into settlements in the Brazilian hinterland. Their settlements, called quilombos , attracted not only African slaves but also people of indigenous origins too. Many of these were destroyed by the colonial masters who resented the tastes of freedom they provided. Of the many quilombos that once existed in Brazil though, a few do survive to this day as isolated rural communities. The Search for Gold Begins in Earnest At the end of the 17th Century, privately-sponsored bandeirantes expeditions discovered gold in the region of Minas Gerais in Central Brazil. Thus began a gold rush that was to lead to dramatic urban development during the 18th Century. Another consequence of these inland expeditions was the westward expansion of the frontiers of Colonial Brazil, far beyond the limits established by the Treaty of Tordesillas of 1494. At the close of the 17th century, freelance prospectors known as bandeirantes found gold in the interior of Brazil. A gold rush quickly followed as gold mining became the main economic activity of Colonial Brazil for the next century. In Portugal, the gold was used to pay for imports of industrialized goods imported from England, and also for magnificent Baroque monuments like the Convent of Mafra . Gold reserves began to run out towards the end of the 18th Century, heralding a period of relative stagnation across the Brazilian hinterland again. Settler Rebellion During the period 1788 to 1789, conspirators belonging to the white upper class rebelled against the obligatory payment of all debts to a colonial government short on income from gold production. They wanted to create a Republic, in which their leader could be chosen through democratic elections. However the structure of the society - including the right to property and the ownership of slaves - would be unchanged. The conspiracy was discovered by the Portuguese Colonial Government in time to stop it. Eleven of the conspirators were banished to Angola. Harsher treatment was reserved for their leader Joaquim Jos da Silva Xavier (nicknamed Tiradentes) though. He was sentenced to death by hanging. Afterwards his body was cut into four pieces, and then sent to different towns as an example of retribution. The investment grade aspects of Brazil's economy are diverse, encompassing as it does agriculture, industry, and a multitude of services. More lately, Brazil is finally punching with an even weight thanks to a booming economy and stronger global influence.These recent economic strengths have been partly due to a global boom in commodities prices, with exports from beef to soybeans especially soaring. During this time, agricultural and related sectors such as forestry, logging and fishing have accounted for more than five per cent of the gross domestic product. This is a performance that puts agri-business way ahead in terms of Brazil's trade balance , and that despite the trade barriers and subsidizing policies adopted by more fortunate highly-developed countries. During this period, industry - from automobiles, steel and petrochemicals to computers, aircraft, and consumer durables accounted for just over thirty per cent of total gross domestic product. This is however highly concentrated geographically, with the leading hubs being in metropolitan areas like Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Campinas, Porto Alegre, and Belo Horizonte. The same applies to high-tech businesses too Brazil is the world's tenth largest energy consumer. This comes mainly from renewable sources , especially hydroelectricity and ethanol, but regrettably also from nonrenewable sources such as oil and natural gas. All this is set to change. Previously a global power in agriculture and natural resources, Brazil is about to become an oil superpower, as it unleashes its greatest burst of prosperity - thanks to massive oil discoveries in recent times. Sciences and Technology Brazilian science was born in the early years of the 19th Century, when the Portuguese Royal Family (headed by John VI) arrived in Rio de Janeiro in 1807. This was to escape from the Napoleon 's invasion of Portugal at that time. Until then, the country was still little more than a Portuguese colony - lacking universities, and a with a total lack of cultural and scientific organizations as well. This was in stark contrast to the former American colonies of the Spanish Empire, which, although being burdened by a largely illiterate population just like Brazil and Portugal, had managed to establish several universities dating back to the 16th Century. These days, technological research in Brazil is largely in the remit of public universities and semi-private research institutes.Notwithstanding this, a worrisome seventy-three percent of research funding still comes from government funds. Some of Brazil's more notable technological hubs include the Butantan Institute, the Oswaldo Cruz Institute , the Aerospace Technical Center, INPE and the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation. Brazil also has by far the most advanced space program in Latin America. It's capabilities include the ability to launch vehicles, maintain several launch sites, and operate terrestrial satellite facilities. In fact, on 14 October 1997 the Brazilian Space Agency even signed an agreement with NASA to provide parts for the International Space Station . On the nuclear front, uranium is enriched at the Resende Nuclear Fuel Factory to supply the nation's energy demands. Plans are also on the way to build the country's first nuclear submarine. Brazil is only one of 3 countries in Latin America with an operational synchrotron laboratory. This is a research facility where physics, chemistry, material science and life science mysteries are freely explored. The Federal Constitution and the General Law of Education prescribe how the Federal Government, the various States, the Federal District, and the many Municipalities organize their respective education systems. Each of these administrative bodies is responsible for management of their funds, as well as their mechanisms to tap sources for this finance. As a guideline, the Constitution reserves 25% of state and municipal taxes (and 18% of federal taxes) for education purposes. Private schools complement the public school system. In 2003, the literacy rate was 88% of the population, and the youth literacy rate 93.2%, forecasting general improvement over time. Illiteracy is at its highest in the northeast ( which has a high proportion of rural poor) at around 27%. Brazil's education continues to exhibit low levels of efficiency at 15-year-old levels, especially in the public school network. Higher education begins with undergraduate study, or sequential modules offering different specialized choices such as academic or vocational paths. Depending on choice and academic performance, students may also improve their educational background with Stricto Sensu or Lato Sensu postgraduate education programs. A public health system is provided at all levels of government, while private healthcare fulfills a complementary role for those more fortunate.The main issues plaguing the Brazilian health system in 2006 were infant mortality, child mortality, maternal mortality, mortality by non-transmissible illness, and mortality caused by external causes including transport accidents, violence and suicide. The official language of Brazil is Portuguese. This is spoken by almost everybody, and is virtually the only language used in media including newspapers, radio, television. It is also used for business and administrative purposes. The only exception to this is Nheengatu - an indigenous mother-tongue that was granted co-official status alongside Portuguese in the municipality of Sao Gabriel da Cachoeira. Portuguese is thus an important contributor to Brazil's national identity. It also gives it a cultural flavor distinct from its Spanish-speaking neighbors. Of course, Brazilian Portuguese has followed its own unique nuances under the influence of American Indian and African dialects .As a result, the language is somewhat different from that spoken in Portugal and other Portuguese-speaking countries, in particular on account of phonological and orthographic differences. For some years now, even Portugal has been considering reforming its own language. The hope is to someday accommodate linguistic developments in Brazilian Portuguese since the two languages gradually diverged after the original colonial settlement. Minority languages are also spoken throughout this vast national territory that is almost the size of the United States. Some of these are spoken by indigenous peoples - in fact there are 180 Amerindian languages spoken in total. Others tongues are also used by immigrants and their descendants. Chief among these are communities of German speakers (mostly High German languages) and Italian (mainly the Talian dialect of Venetian origin). Both of these have developed Portuguese influences over time roo. Brazilian Culture The wide variety of social elements has created a society characterized by ethnic complexity. In particular, Brazilian culture has been heavily influenced by European, African, and Indigenous cultures and traditions. The earliest major influence came from Portuguese culture itself, because of strong colonial ties to the Portuguese Empire . Among the inheritances the Portuguese introduced were their language, their Catholic religion and their colonial architectural style. Other influences on Brazilian culture were contributions by Italians, Germans and various other European immigrants . Historically their influences are felt closer to the South and Southeast of Brazil because that's where they settled first. The Amerindians influenced Brazil's language and cuisine too, as did Africans - brought to Brazil as slaves - especially in the cuisine, music, dance and religious sectors. Literature in the western sense dates back to the 16th Century, specifically to the writings of the first Portuguese explorers and navigators. Regional diversity in this regard reflects the country's mix of native and immigrant descendents. This has created a national cooking style that's similarly varied. Brazil's cultural tradition extends to musical styles that include the samba , bossa nova, forr , frevo, pagode and many others. The nation has also contributed to classical music, in the form of works of many talented composers. In arts, important modern artists include Anita Malfatti and Tarsila do Amaral - both early pioneers in Brazilian art. Cinema has a long tradition too. It reaches back to the late 19th century when the technology was being born, and gained a fresh level of international acclaim in recent years. This collage of cultures finds its expression in numerous festivals known as Carnaval s. These feature spectacular street parades and vibrant music, and have become one of the most powerful images of Brazil that tourists take home with them. They include an annual celebration held forty days before Easter to mark the beginning of the Lenten vigil. These festivals are celebrated throughout Brazil, although with distinct regional characteristics. The most dramatic of all take place in Rio de Janeiro, Salvador, Recife, and Olinda, although the nature of the individual events varies again. Other festive events include the Boi Bumb and Festa Junina June festivals. Religion The constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the government generally respects this right in practice. As a result, a number of distinct religions exist side-by-side. The Roman Catholic Church is still dominant though, making Brazil the largest Catholic nation in the world in fact. Although the official link between the State and the Roman Catholic Church was discontinued in the late 19th Century, the Church continues to exert a major influence on national affairs to this day. Despite this, the number of Protestant Christians is steadily rising. Until 1970 most of these were members of "traditional churches" - mainly Lutherans , Presbyterians and Baptists. Since then though, numbers of Neo-Pentecostal and Pentecostal members have increased significantly. Traditional African beliefs - brought in by slaves - have blended with Catholicism to create Afro-Brazilian religions such as Macumba, Candombl, and Umbanda. In parallel, Amerindians continue practice a wide variety of indigenous religions that vary from group to group in different regions. Approximately 72% of the population follow Roman Catholicism and 16% Protestantism Christianity. Other beliefs include other Christians, Kardecist Spiritualists , Traditional African and Amerindians Faiths, Buddhists, Jews, Islamics, Agnostics and Atheists. Sport Brazil is a sporting nation, and this reflects in many things that the people do. Football is by far the most popular pastime. The Brazilian National Football Team is regularl y rated highly according to FIFA World Rankings. Other major national sports include basketball, volleyball, auto racing, and the martial arts. Although not as regularly practiced, tennis, handball, swimming, and gymnastics have also found a growing number of enthusiasts over past decades. In the martial arts, Brazilians have their own unique Capoeira,Vale Tudo, and Jiu-Jitsu. In auto racing terms Brazil's drivers have won the Formula 1 World Championship eight times, and count names like Emerson Fittipaldi, Nelson Piquet and Ayrton Senna among their heroes. 