Martha is the one who begins to pull Mary out of her accustomed petulance and sour mood. Most of the other servants spend as little time with her as possible, as she is so unpleasant, but Martha inspires Mary to change by telling her stories about her younger brother Dickon, who is happy and full of high spirits because of the joy he finds in nature, even though the family is fairly poor and live simply. For the first time, Mary begins to develop interests in people other than herself, and in things other than those produced specifically to amuse her. She also begins to imitate Martha and Dickon's Yorkshire dialect, as they are the first to teach her certain words for the natural phenomena around her, and she begins to feel that this dialect is the best language for expressing truths about nature and about herself.

About this time, Mary's uncle returns from abroad and meets her, only for a short time, for the first time since she has arrived at his home. Feeling a bit guilty that she is engaged in an activity that she knows he would not have permitted, Mary asks her uncle if she may claim a bit of garden from any unused part of the grounds, and he grants her permission. Thanks to these new interests, Mary begins to come into bloom herself. The servants begin to remark on her changed looks and strikingly improved manners. More than once, she hears what seems to be sobbing coming from somewhere in the house. She asks the servants what the sound is, but they evade her questions, telling her that she must be imagining things, hearing the wind, or that one of the maids had a toothache. Her uncle's son, Colin, a year or two older than Mary, is an invalid confined to bed, unable to walk, and is as lonesome, spoiled, and unpleasant as Mary used to be - and for much the same reasons.

He is neglected by his father, who cannot bear to look at him both because of his resemblance to his dead mother, and because Craven is convinced that he has passed on to his son his mildly hunchbacked condition. Colin has also become morbidly obsessed with the idea that he is becoming or will become hunchbacked, that he is weak and sickly, and that he will soon die. Because of his invalid status, Colin is coddled and spoiled, and tends to throw outrageous tantrums to get his own way. The servants manage him as best they can, and have kept Mary and Colin a secret from one another because Colin always says he cannot stand to have strangers looking at him.

Colin insists that Mary visit him frequently, which she does. As spring approaches, however, Colin becomes jealous that Mary is spending more time gardening with Dickon. He threatens to issue an order forbidding Dickon the grounds, but Mary has lost her fear of upsetting him and shouts right back, then slams out of the room. Colin attempts to one-up her with his usual best weapon - a hysterical tantrum - screaming that he is developing a hunch in his back and will surely soon be dead.

To the shock of the servants and of Colin himself, however, Mary does not coddle or attempt to soothe Colin out of his tantrum. Having been a spoiled, sickly child herself, Mary has no illusions about this one. She sharply tells him to stop his nonsense, and upon inspecting Colin's spine informs him that the "lumps" of which he is so terrified are no more than the shapes of normal vertebrae such as she has herself.

It turns out that the firmness and resistance Mary offers are the best thing for Colin. For the first time, someone is challenging him; also for the first time, someone else's friendship is valuable enough to him that he is willing to exert himself, even challenge himself, so that he does not lose it. Colin has never before had anything that mattered enough to him for him to make an effort to keep it.

Soon he has two such people: at Mary's encouragement, Colin agrees that she can bring Dickon to his room for a visit. Together, Mary and Dickon take Colin out to the garden in a wheelchair, and show him his mother's garden. He is enchanted with it, and repeats his visits as often as the weather permits, issuing imperious orders to the servants to keep away. In spite of these directions, the group is found one day by Ben Weatherstaff, the manor's old gardener. tried to keep the roses blooming by secretly climbing the garden's wall every six months or so.

At first Ben scolds the children for what they have done, but when he sees how they have brought the garden back to life, he tells them he will not reveal their secret. As the roses come back to life, Colin does the same. He makes a resolution: when his father next comes home, he will find Colin running and walking like a healthy boy. With Mary and Dickon's help, he undertakes a program of simple exercise and positively-focused thoughts.

The three conceal Colin's greatly improving health from the servants, pretending that he is still sickly, so that they can surprise Colin's father, who is traveling through Europe. Mr. Craven, while in Europe, hears Lilias' voice in a dream, telling him that he should return home. At about the same time, a letter reaches him written by Mrs. Sowerby (the mother of Dickon and Martha; she is in on the surprise as well). She tells him that if his wife were still living, she would ask him to return to England. Mr. Craven hurries back home. When he arrives, Mary, Colin, and Dickon are in the secret garden, and Mr. Craven, though he does not know they are there, feels compelled by some force to move in that direction.

As he nears the garden, he cannot believe his ears; voices are coming from inside its walls. Next, he cannot believe his eyes: Colin races out of the garden and runs toward him, having just beaten Mary and Dickon in a garden-long dash. Mr. Craven accompanies the children back within the walls of the garden, and they explain the whole history of what they have done. The four of them walk back to the manor, and the household staff are amazed to see a pair of miracles before them: Colin striding along and Mr. Craven with a look of happiness on his face.

It is possible that changing public acceptance of the themes Burnett focuses on accounts for the differences in the reception of these two books. Little Lord Fauntleroy tells the story of a golden child (figuratively and literally; the little boy is crowned with a head of golden curls) who ascends from a life of poverty into the English peerage, when it comes to light that he is the only remaining male heir to a ducal title. The little boy is an angel at the start of the book and an angel at the end, and he is rewarded with riches, lands, a title, and the adoration of all who surround him, including his formerly curmudgeonly grandfather (the current Duke). In fact, his seemingly otherworldly ability to love and see the good in everyone works a near-magical transformation on his grandfather, who has been not just an irascible old man, but a cruel, spiteful, and vengeful person for most of his life, as well as an unloving and unjust parent.

Little Lord Fauntleroy is a largely untroubled and unquestioning rags-to-riches story, and the recipient of the riches is presented as thoroughly deserving them - though there is a hint that the reason he is so completely golden-hearted and loving is that he was raised simply and lovingly by his sweet, angelic, but poor mother. In contrast, The Secret Garden is a more complex story and therefore perhaps a more satisfying one for modern audiences - who may also be less disturbed by what seems to be a clear privileging of the life experience of the agrarian classes over their landed owners. Biographical notes on Frances Hodgson Burnett It is easy to draw connecting lines between Burnett's life and the themes she espouses in her books, particularly those that are most prominent in The Secret Garden .

The Secret Garden was made into a musical in 1991. It ran on Broadway for nearly two years and more than seven hundred performances. It won several Tony Awards in the Musical category, for its book, lead actress (Daisy Eagan), and set design. The set was particularly innovative, with its resemblance to the toy theatres popular in the Victorian era. It made use of oversized paper dolls, pop-outs, and collage-like elements (similar to those made famous by Joseph Cornell).

The musical's plot is largely the same as the novel's, but a few details are changed. For one thing, Mary is said by her uncle to resemble her aunt, who is named Lily here. The garden is a topiary maze, and Dickon, rather than being just a simple, good-hearted boy with a green thumb, is actually a sort of druid or nature spirit, which gives his character more complexity than it had in the novel.

A new character is introduced: Neville Craven, Archibald Craven's younger brother. He also notes Mary's likeness to her aunt, and through a song that the brothers share ("Lily's Eyes,") the audience comes to understand that Neville also loved Lily, though she never returned his love. Somewhat problematically, Neville is a physician; this makes it harder to believe that Colin would be misdiagnosed as unable to walk for his entire life. However, he later becomes a malevolent force in the story, prompted partly by his dark memories of being rejected by Lily, and dwelling on Mary's resemblance to her aunt.

Neville convinces Archibald to send Mary away to boarding school, hoping to hasten the day when Archibald will leave for good and the house will belong to Neville alone.