Why does the paying parent receive a credit for overnight visits with the child or children? When the children are physically with the parent who pays child support, that paying parent has the responsibility to feed the children, to spend extra money on gas taking the children to/from school or extracurricular activities, to pay for additional utilities (presumably the expenses for water, electricity, etc are higher when the children are there). The credit received by the paying parent is intended to help offset those out-of-pocket expenses while the children are with him or her. How can I be sure child support is paid? The best practice for everyone involved is to use an income withholding order (IWO). An IWO is an order that directs the paying parents employer to deduct the child support right from the parents paycheck. That money is then sent to the clerk of the court or the centralized collection bureau. By taking the money right out of the paycheck, the child support gets paid before all of the other bills and expenses, so the parent cant fall behind.

, in fact, some Indiana courts actually require child support to be paid via IWO. If an IWO is not possible (for example, if the paying parent is self-employed), it is still best to have all child support payments go through the clerk of courts/centralized collection bureau so that there is an accurate record of the payments made in the event there is ever a dispute between the parties. Direct deposit from one party's bank account into the others are also common and useful tools in order to be sure the child support payments are timely made. What if a parent quits or loses his/her job? If the parent quits a job in order to avoid paying child support, the court will most likely not change the support order, and will use coercive methods to nudge the parent into paying that can include ordering the parent to apply for jobs and provide proof of the application or monetary fines. If a parent is simply refusing to pay support and runs up a sizable arrearage, the court can order the parent jailed.

The jail sentence usually provides for a certain length of time or the payment of a certain amount, whichever comes first. A jail sentence quite often produces a hefty payment toward the support obligation. What if the paying parent leaves the state? In cases where a parent leaves and tries to avoid paying support that way, the local prosecutor can ask the prosecuting attorney near the paying parent to begin a reciprocal enforcement action.

In other words, the child support order follows the paying parent around. I hear about peoples tax refunds being taken because they owe child support. Does this really happen?

If a person has a sizable arrearage, the state can intercept tax refunds on behalf of the custodial parent.