Difference between the lipid profile test and VAP test: In the traditional cholesterol test, these levels are calculated using a specific formula. In contrast, the new VAP test is able to measure these levels directly. The lipid profile test works by spinning blood in a high-speed centrifuge to separate the lipids (fats). This standard test, called a lipid profile, distinguishes three lipid categories: high-density lipoproteins, orHDL; low-density lipoproteins, orLDL; andtriglycerides, the main form of fat in the body. Like the lipid profile, the VAP test works by spinning a blood sample to separate lipids by weight. But the VAP test provides more detail than the traditional test. This test is done to check the level of cholesterol in your blood and to see if you are at high risk fo a heart attack, stroke, or other cardiovascular problem. Studies of both men and women have shown that the higher your HDL, the lower your risk of coronary artery disease. This is why HDL is sometimes referred to as "good" cholesterol. HDL will usually be done as part of an overall lipid profile, where "bad" cholesterol (LDL) and triglycerides will also be measured. The combined information gathered from all of these tests may help your risk of heart attack, stroke, and peripheral vascular disease. Your health care provider will recommend therapy if your risk is found to be high. Regular exercise can increase HDL levels by several points. Why the Test is Performed? Your doctor may order this test to determine your risk of heart disease. Increased levels of VLDL are linked to atherosclerosis, which can lead to coronary heart disease. This test may be included in a coronary risk profile. What is VLDL and how does it relate to triglyceride? Very Low Density Lipoprotein (VLDL) is one of three major lipoprotein particles. The other two are high density lipoprotein (HDL) and low density lipoprotein (LDL). Each one of these particles contains a mixture of cholesterol, protein, and triglyceride, but in varying amounts unique to each type of particle. LDL contains the highest amount of cholesterol. HDL contains the highest amount of protein. VLDL contains the highest amount of triglyceride. Since VLDL contains most of the circulating triglyceride and since the compositions of the different particles are relatively constant, it is possible to estimate the amount of VLDL cholesterol by dividing the triglyceride value (in mg/dL) by 5. At present, there is no simple, direct way of measuring VLDL-cholesterol, so the estimate calculated from triglyceride is used in most settings. This calculation is not valid when the triglyceride is greater than 400 mg/dL. VLDL levels have been correlated with accelerated rates of atherosclerosis, and are elevated in a number of diseases and metabolic states. Do high triglyceride levels cause atherosclerosis? Whether elevated triglyceride levels in the blood lead to atherosclerosis and heart attacks is controversial. While most doctors now believe that an abnormally high triglyceride level is a risk factor for atherosclerosis, it is difficult to conclusively prove that elevated triglyceride by itself can cause atherosclerosis. However, it is increasingly recognized that elevated triglyceride is often associated with other conditions that increase the risk of atherosclerosis, including obesity, low levels of HDL- cholesterol, insulin resistance and poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, and small, dense LDL cholesterol particles. What are the causes of elevated triglyceride levels? In some people, abnormally high triglyceride levels (hypertriglyceridemia) are inherited. Examples of inherited hypertriglyceridemia disorders include mixed hypertriglyceridemia, familial hypertriglyceridemia, and familial dysbetalipoproteinemia. Hypertriglyceridemia can often be caused by non-genetic factors such as obesity, excessive alcohol intake, diabetes mellitus, kidney disease, and estrogen- containing medications such as birth control pills. How can elevated blood triglyceride levels be treated? The first step in treating hypertriglyceridemia is a low fat diet with a limited amount of sweets, regular aerobic exercise, loss of excess weight, reduction of alcohol consumption, and stopping cigarette smoking. In patients with diabetes mellitus, meticulous control of elevated blood glucose is also important. When medications are necessary, fibrates (such as Lopid), nicotinic acid, and statin medications can be used. Lopid not only decreases triglyceride levels but also increases HDL cholesterol levels and LDL cholesterol particle size. Nicotinic acid lowers triglyceride levels, increases HDL cholesterol levels and the size of LDL cholesterol particles, as well as lowers the levels of Lp (a) cholesterol. The statin drugs have been found effective in decreasing triglyceride as well as LDL cholesterol levels and, to a lesser extent, in elevating HDL cholesterol levels. A relatively new medicine, fenofibrate (Tricor), shows promise as an effective agent in lowering serum triglyceride levels as well as raising HDL levels, particularly in patients who have had suboptimal responses to Lopid. In some patients, a combination of Lopid or Tricor with adjunctive statin therapy (see below) may be prescribed. While this combination is often effective in patients with complex lipid disorders, the potential for side effects may be increased and such patients should be under strict medical supervision. What are lipid-altering medications? Lipid altering medications are used in lowering blood levels of undesirable lipids such as LDL cholesterol and triglycerides and increasing blood levels of desirable lipids such as HDL cholesterol. Several classes of medications are available in the United States, including HMG CoA reductase inhibitors (statins), nicotinic acid, fibric acid derivatives, and medications that decrease intestinal cholesterol absorption (bile acid sequestrants and cholesterol absorption inhibitors). Some of these medications are primarily useful in lowering LDL cholesterol, others in lowering triglycerides, and some in elevating HDL cholesterol. Medications also can be combined to more aggressively lower LDL, as well as in lowering LDL and increasing HDL at the same time. 3. Cardiovascular Disease Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of illness and death One of the major contributing factors to cardiovascular disease is cholesterol. Yet cholesterol is an essential chemical in the body; without it, we couldn't survive. It is used in the synthesis of hormones like estrogen and testosterone, and it is necessary for the formation of cell membranes. Hyperlipidaemia has emerged as one of the most important preventable and modifiable risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD). Clinical signs of this condition are an increase in the fasting serum cholesterol level (hypercholesterolaemia) or the fasting serum triglyceride level (hypertriglyceridaemia) or both. A meta- analysis of 16 randomised trials involving cholesterol-lowering interventions reported a 2.5% reduction in CHD incidence for every 1% cholesterol reduction. Lipid levels may be affected by diet, exercise, smoking, certain medications (e.g : beta blockers, thiazide diuretics, glueocorticoids) and concurrent disease states (e.g . kidney and liver diseases). The risk of CHD directly correlates with total serum cholesterol concentration. Serum cholesterol levels beginning in the range of 150 to 180 mg/dl in men as young as 20 years old have been associated with a low subsequent CHD risk, but the risk increases in a curvilinear fashion. The steepest part of the curve, where CHD risk is compounded, occurs above total cholesterol levels of 240 mg/dl. In middle age, treatment trials have shown that for every 1% reduction in total cholesterol levels, the risk of CHD is lowered by 2% to 3%. Women have half the risk of developing CHD compared with men at any given cholesterol level.