Switch things up every now and then when you're practicing for your interview. If you usually practice alone, practice with a friend. If you usually answer the anticipated questions in one order, switch the order. By answering questions in a different order, you can avoid sounding rehearsed during your interview. Engineering Jobs (CT) CT Job Tip Engineers cover the following territory: agricultural, aerospace, biomedical, chemical, civil, computer hardware, electrical, electronics, environmental, health and safety, industrial, marine, materials, mechanical, mining and geological, nuclear, and petroleum. Employment will grow about as fast as average for engineering jobs through 2014, with some variance within specialties. The two top specialties in which employment will grow faster than average are biomedical and environmental. Product Manager D&D Associates (CT-Stamford, CT) A leading financial software company in Norwalk, CT is looking for an experienced software Product Manager. You will work with engineering on new product development as well as enhance existing products. You will be responsible for the product life cycle, including gathering requirements, creating design concepts, and working with engineering to implement and launch the product. Engineering Manager Lex Products Corp. (CT-Stamford, CT) Lex Products designs and manufactures multi-level electrical power distribution and control systems for the commercial and military markets, especially those with unique requirements like rough use, extreme climates, and high amounts of power load balancing. We are currently seeking a process-driven leader to head up its product development, custom product, technical support, and research and development. Engineering Opportunities U.S. Navy (CT-Stamford, CT) The U.S. Navy is not just the world's preeminent sea power rather one of the largest employers of engineers, both nuclear and civil. Navy Engineers enjoy exceptional professional benefits that are hard to find in the private sector. US Navy Officer Career Opportunities U.S. Navy (CT-Stamford, CT) If you're a student or graduate of a four-year college or university with leadership skills and determination, now's the perfect time to look into a career as a Navy Officer. Here, you can get comprehensive training that sets you apart and follows you wherever you go. Customer Service - Inside Sales E08119Alstom US (Hartford, CT) Alstom Power Inc., a world leader in the supply of power generation services and equipment, is seeking an energetic and assertive individual to support our customer service team in this entry-level position within our Power Service Boiler Parts organization. Basic Requirements: A Bachelors degree in marketing, communications or technical field or a trade-school diploma. Software Engineer - Bristol, CT EDGE Services, Inc (Hartford, CT) EDGE Services Inc. has specialized in the development, implementation and integration of banking and financial software since 1993. Backed by an on time and on budget industry track record, EDGE provides project managers, technicians, systems analysts, business analysts and testers with industry and application expertise. Team center System Administrator - East Hartford, CT. Csc (Hartford, CT) Job Title: Team center System Administrator - East Hartford, CT. CONNECTICUT-EAST HARTFORD Schedule: Full-time Job Type : Standard Employee Status: Regular Travel: Yes, 25% of the time Job Description : Essential Job Functions Develops the technical solution that meets the requirements of the project. MECHANICAL ENGINEERING TECH / US / CT / E Hartford Northrop Grumman Space Tech (Hartford, CT) Join the men and women of Northrop Grumman Space Technology in meeting the largest, most complex systems challenges imaginable for government, military and business. Description: Support design, fabrication, assembly and test of precision mechanical devices under limited supervision of an engineer or scientist. IT Quality Analyst - Automation Testing - Minnetonka, MN, Phoenix, AZ, Hartford, CT UnitedHealth Group (Hartford, CT) UnitedHealth Group is an innovative leader in the health and well-being industry, serving more than 55 million Americans. Through our family of companies, we contribute outstanding clinical insight with consumer-friendly services and advanced technology to help people achieve optimal health. Supplier Quality Engineer - CT Raytheon (Danbury/Bridgeport, CT) This is a temporary position for a minimum period of 3 - 4 months as a Regional Supplier Quality Engineer. This is a home office based position, covering a regional area within a 200 mile radius. Some longer distance and overnight travel may be required. Job Duties: A Supplier Quality Manager position in a high paced Military aerospace environment. Field Account Rep For Pumps - MUST LIVE IN RI, MA OR CTExpress Employment (Providence, RI) We are seeking for a sales professional with at least five years experience in selling industrial rotative machinery, preferably pumps . A leader in the power/machinery industry is seeking a motivated and experienced sales account person to maintain, acquire and develop accounts for sales of PUMPS in the Rhode Island, Connecticut and Massachusetts market. Senior Engineering Finance SpecialistThe Rosen Group(New Haven, CT) A Senior Engineering Specialist to provide financial analysis in labor estimating. This is a unique opportunity to join one of the premier companies in the World. You will have the immediate chance to have high visibility with executive management and to make an impact on the companies expanding operations in CT. Facilities Operations Manager I - West Haven, CTJohnson Controls - Controls (New Haven, CT) Johnson Controls is a world class employer where ingenuity and excellence are welcome. We are a global market leader in automotive experience, building efficiency and power solutions with over 140,000 employees in 125 countries. For over a century, Johnson Controls has been working to find new ways to improve the places where people live, work and travel. Development Scientist I- Ph.D. Required, Upstream Development-Cheshire, CTAlexion Pharmaceuticals (New Haven, CT) A position for a Development Scientist I is available in our Fermentation and Cell Culture Development group. The responsibilities of this position include: 1) Develop and evaluate next-generation commercial bioreactor processes to successfully transfer processes to pilot and manufacturing scales 2) Improve existing platform bioreactor processes for GS derived NS0 and CHO cell lines Engineering OpportunitiesU.S. Navy (Los Angeles, CA) Operate and develop some of the world's most sensitive and classified nuclear technology. Or take your civil engineering career a quantum leap forward. Only in the Navy. 