This is a maximum weight pushed from the bench press position, measuring the amount of upper body force that can be generated. It is an important area for performing police tasks requiring upper body strength. The test will be conducted on a Universal DVR-Chest Press. The score is a ratio of weight pushed divided by body weight. The purpose of the Sit-Up Test is to assess the muscular endurance of the abdominals and hip flexors. This is a measure of the muscular endurance of the abdominal muscles. It is an important area for performing police tasks that may involve the use of force. It is also important for maintaining good posture and minimizing lower back problems. The score is the number of correct sit-ups completed in one minute. After each movement, the participant should return to the supine position before going up again; shoulders must be returned to touch the mat, but the head need not touch. (Caution: the participant should breathe continuously and easily during the exercise so as not to invoke the Valsalva maneuver.) Physical therapists use goniometers and inclinometers to help them measure a patient's range of motion. The therapist uses the goniometer by lining up the arms with the patient's bones that surround the joint they are wanting to assess. Generally, the joint must be assessed at both ends of the range of motion (ie. fully flexed and fully extended).Unlike the goniometer, the inclinometer does not require the therapist to align the device with the joint. Tai Chi began in China as a form of martial arts, and it includes a series of postures with meditation. Pilates involves movements that are performed in a specific order for maximum stretching and strengthening. Foam rollers are cylinder shaped foam pieces of varying densities that are now being widely used as exercise equipment as well as for rehabilitation. These rollers are used to improve flexibility, balance, and strength. They are becoming increasingly popular in yoga and pilates classes, fitness centers, and rehabilitation clinics. Some foam rollers even come with their own DVD for instructions and use at home. The sit and reach test has it's share of critics who believe it's not a useful measurement of functional, or "real-life," flexibility. How often do we need to sit on the floor with our legs straight in front of us and reach for our toes? I'd guess not often. On the other hand, how often do we need to bend over and pick something up (golfers, tennis players, baseball), get into a tuck position (skiing or cycling), or even kick something (soccer)? These are real-life examples where good back and hamstring flexibility is needed. But the sit and reach doesn't do a good job of measuring that well. New flexibility assessments are currently being developed, and many trainers and therapists use their own versions with clients. But until more specialized flexibility tests become mainstream, the sit and reach can help track flexibility changes over time. When used for this purpose, it can be a useful testing tool for general flexibility. You can also make your own testing box by finding a solid box about 30-cm tall. Fix a meter stick on top of the box so that 26 cm of the ruler extend over the front edge of the box toward the test subject. The 26-cm mark should be at the edge of the box. Proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF) an advanced stretching technique that has been shown to maximize stretching gains. Let the indiviual perform an active contraction against resistance. This contraction causes a reflex relaxation of the muscle that the individual is trying to stretch (hamstring). By applying a passive assist , it facilitates the subsequent stretching of the hamstring It is important to point out that there are a variety of PNF techniques. Because they involve some passive movements they should not be done without proper training, supervision, or assistance. With the tape create a straight baseline (the blue line in the pictures below) with a length of about 20-30cm (8-12in) and, perpendicular to the midpoint, a measurement line (the orange one) extending about 50-60cm (2 feet) on each side. The intersection of both lines marks the zero point. 4. Zipper (Shoulder Flexibility) Raise your right arm, bend your elbow, and reach down across your back as far as possible. At the same time, extend your left arm down and behind your back, bend your elbow up across your back, and try to cross your fingers over those of your right hand. Measure the distance to the nearest half-inch. If your fingers overlap, score as a plus; if they fail to meet, score as a minus; use a zero if your fingertips just touch. Repeat with your arms crossed in the opposite direction (left arm up). Most people will find that they are more flexible on one side than the other.