Its unfortunate that the season also brings with it some very specific hazards - sunburn, heat exhaustion and heat stroke. These hazards are also a threat to your human family, but they can really endanger the lives of your furry family members. As temperatures soar, your dog will need a little attention in order to ensure his safety. If your dogs body temperature gets too high, he could develop heat stroke, or hyperthermia.

In addition to a high body temperature (over 105 degrees F), the signs that indicate potential heat stroke are: an inordinate amount of panting, labored breathing, bright red gums or eye membranes, pronounced fatigue, collapse, unconsciousness and seizures. If your dog displays any of these symptoms, get him out of the heat immediately and into the shade. If possible, put your dog in a tub of cool water or bathe him with a series of cool, wet towels. Do not use cold water or ice! Either will cause your dogs blood vessels to constrict and impede the body from being able to release heat. Heat stroke should be treated as an emergency; therefore, as soon as possible, seek a veterinarians care.

A dog with moderate heat stroke (body temperature from 104to 106) can recover within an hour if given prompt first aid and veterinary care (normal body temperature is 100-102.5). Severe heatstroke (body temperature over 106) can be deadly and immediate veterinary assistance is needed.

Sitting in a hot car is not the only way to acquire heat stroke, although sadly it is the most common as people clearly don't care or aren't aware that their dog will die if left in a car. However any dog exercising on a hot, humid day, even with plenty of water, can get heat stroke. Be careful when exercising your dog in the summer. Short-nosed breeds, like pugs, boxers, and bulldogs, are especially susceptible, as are double-coated breeds like German Shepherds and Old English Sheepdogs.

There are some things which may seem helpful to your dogs heat problem but can actually cause more difficulty. For instance giving your dog a "summer cut" might sound like a good idea, but consider this information first. Your dog's skin has never been exposed to direct sunlight and will burn quickly and badly with only a little exposure. The fur acts as a sun block and keeps the skin healthy.

Many people dont realize that dogs, just like humans, can be burned by the sun. So what can you do to protect your pooch from those burning rays? Just use the same common sense and know-how that keeps you and your family from burning up in the sun. First of all, keep your dog in the shade during those times when the suns rays are most intense approximately 10 am to 4 pm.

Second, apply a little sun block to your dogs most exposed areas the tip of each ear and the nose. While your dogs lip area is also vulnerable to sunburn, the chance that your dog will ingest any sunscreen applied there is too great. Instead of applying sunscreen to the lip area, just keep a close eye on it and make sure that the area doesn't get too pink. Third, pay special attention to your dog if he has a lighter colored fur. Just like their pale human counterparts, these dogs are more vulnerable to the burning effects of the sun. If, after a day out in the sun, any portion of your dogs skin is reddened or blistered, immediately seek a veterinarians opinion and care.

There is also evidence that fur insulates the dog from the heat just as it does the cold, kind of like a thermos. Shaving a dog that is used to a heavier coat will throw off the body temperature regulators, which means your dog may not take much-needed breaks from activity and sun like he usually would. Your dog can overwork itself and risk serious heat-related illness. When walking your dog, remember the ground may be quite a bit hotter than usual. You may not feel it through your footwear, but your dog's pads come in direct contact with that ground.

Your dog may refuse to walk or try lifting one paw up at a time. Most dogs' pads are pretty rugged and not all outdoor surfaces will get too hot for your dog. But remember your dog won't tell you its too hot in English.

Alternatively use a shower or hose to wet him down. For very small dogs, use lukewarm water; for larger breeds cold water may be used. CAUTION: Cooling must take place gradually. Cooling too quickly or allowing his body temperature to become too low can cause other life-threatening medical conditions. Your veterinarian will lower your dog's body temperature to a safe range (if you have not already) and continually monitor his temperature. Your dog will be given fluids, and possibly oxygen. He will be monitored for shock, respiratory distress, kidney failure, heart abnormalities, and other complications, and treated accordingly. Blood samples may be taken before and during the treatment.

The clotting time of the blood will be monitored, since clotting problems are a common complication.

Never leave your dog in the car without the air conditioner running. Even a few minutes in the sun can send the interior temperature of a car (with windows open or closed) soaring to fatal temperatures. If you're doing errands and know that you'll be in and out of the vehicle, your safest option is to simply leave the dog at home. However, if you really must leave your dog in the car for even the shortest period of time, leave the air conditioner on. Also provide your dog with a shaded, well-ventilated resting area that will remain shaded at all times, regardless of the suns position.

You may have to move the dogs shade throughout the day in order to achieve this. Of course, during the most excruciating heat of the day, the ideal place for your dog is an air conditioned structure.