Annuities are quite similar to Social Securities or a pension plans helping you turn your funds into a guaranteed stream of income for your lifetime. However, unlike Social Security and many pension plans, annuities allow you elect a beneficiary to receive your payments if you pass away prematurely.

Now, instead of asking, "Why should we all invest in annuities?" one should be asking "Why not?" You may take time pondering on these some valuable answers. Annuity offers a higher interest rate compare to that of savings account or by investing in CDs.

From the conservative investor to those who are willing to take moderate risks, annuities offer something for everyone that would best suit your needs. Since tax is deferred on most annuities, you will not be paying your taxes yearly on your investment rather will pay them only when you receive income from the annuity or make a withdrawal from it. That's why your investment will grow better and faster. You can avail Annuities through a one-time payment or by regular payments, whichever you can afford. It is also possible to hold a joint annuity to secure your partner's financial future. Annuities are worth considering and investing in for all.

It is advisable to contact an annuity broker who will be able to assess your financial situation and help your decide how to invest your money in annuities.

Once age 59 is reached, you can begin to withdraw your funds with no penalties from the IRS. Unlike most retirement accounts, with non-qualified annuities you are not forced to withdraw a portion of your funds at 70 . This way, you stay in control of how and when you withdraw your funds. An annutization helps you to spread out the taxable income over several years.

When withdrawn from non-qualified annuities, your funds are never taxed, yet they are subject to interest. If the account is annuitized, then the taxable interest will be distributed evenly in each payment, not in a lump sum. Annuities as well as provide protection from creditors. Once the annuity principal has been annuitized, it is very difficult for creditors to attach to the monthly payments, which means that annuities guarantee sure income in any situation.

One kind is the flexible premium contract . With this,you can pay as much as you want, whenever you want, within set limits. The other kind is a scheduled premium contract , this specifies how much your premiums will be and how often you will pay them. An equity-indexed annuity is a fixed annuity, which is either immediate or deferred, earning interest or providing benefits that are linked to an external equity reference or an equity index. It is a special type of contract between an investor and an insurance company.

During the accumulation period, when you make either a lump sum payment or a series of payments, the insurance company credits you with a return that is based on changes in an equity index, such as the S&P 500 Composite Stock Price Index. Typically, the insurance company guarantees a minimum return, which rates vary. After the accumulation period, the insurance company will make periodic payments to you under the terms of your contract unless you choose to receive your contract value through lump sum.

What makes equity-indexed annuity differ from other fixed annuities is the way it credits interest to the value of your annuity. Your equity-indexed annuity, like other fixed annuities, promises to pay a minimum interest rate. The rate that will be applied will not be less than this minimum guaranteed rate even if the index-linked interest rate is lower.

Also. the annuity's value won't drop below a guaranteed minimum. Equity-indexed annuities credit interest through a formula based on changes in the index to which the annuity is linked. That formula decides how the additional interest, if any, is calculated and credited. The additional interest you'll get and when you'll get it depends on the features of your particular annuity. Some fixed annuities only credit interest calculated at a rate set in the contract while other fixed annuities also credit interest at rates set from time to time by the insurance company.

Equity-indexed annuities combine features of traditional insurance products (guaranteed minimum return) and traditional securities (return linked to equity markets). Depending on the mix of features, an equity-indexed annuity may or may not be a security. Typically, equity-indexed annuity is not registered with the SEC. Losing Your Money If you cancel you annuity prior to its maturity contract, you can lose your money. Even if you have a guarantee, you can still lose money if your guarantee is based on an amount that is less than the full amount of your purchase payments. In many cases, it will take several years for an equity-index annuity's minimum guarantee to break even.

Also, if you cancel early, you may have to pay a huge surrender charge and tax penalties. In some cases, insurance companies may not credit you with index-linked interest if you don't hold your contract to maturity. Contract Features Equity-indexed annuities are complicated products that may contain several features that can affect your return. You should fully understand how an equity-indexed annuity computes its index-linked interest rate before you buy. An insurance company may credit you with a lower return than the actual indexs gain.

Two features that have the greatest effect on the amount of additional interest that may be credited to an equity-indexed annuity are the indexing method and the participation rate. It is important to understand the features and how they work together. The following describes some other equity-indexed annuity features that affect the index-linked formula. For example, if the calculated change in the index is 9% and the participation rate is 70%, the index-linked interest rate for your annuity will be 6.3% (9% x 70% = 6.3%).

An insurance company may set a different participation rate for newly issued annuities as often as each day.So, your annuity's initial participation rate will depend on when the company issued it. Usually, the company guarantees the participation rate for a specific period from one year to the entire contract term. The company will then set a new rate for the next period, when the previous period is done. Some annuities guarantee that the participation rate will never be set lower than a specified minimum or higher than a specified maximum. The company subtracts the percentage only if the change in the index produces a positive interest rate. The floor is the minimum index-linked interest rate you will earn. The most common floor is 0%.

A 0% floor assures that even if the index decreases in value, the index-linked interest that you earn will be zero and not negative. Interest is added to your annuity each year during the term. Your annuity using the annual reset method may credit more interest than annuities using other methods when the index fluctuates up and down often during the term. It is because the interest earned is "locked in" annually and the index value is "reset" at the end of each year, future decreases in the index will not affect the interest you have already earned .

Downside: your annuity's participation rate may change each year and generally will be lower than that of other indexing methods. Also an annual reset design may use a cap or averaging to limit the total amount of interest you might earn each year.