The Sonoma County program for the medically indigent is provided through the State's County Medical Services Program (CMSP). This program serves residents who are single, meet Federal poverty guidelines for income, and otherwise are not eligible for medical treatment under MediCal. ELIGIBILITY: Individuals ages 21 through 64 who reside in a participating county, have income at or below 200% of the federal poverty level (FPL), and who are not eligible for Medi-Cal benefits Any changes in your situation that may affect your eligibility must be reported to your eligibility worker. These changes include getting married/divorced, getting or losing a job, getting pregnant, changing your address, as well as any changes to income. If these or any other change occurs you must notify your worker within ten days. The county will determine which programs you may qualify for if you are a single parent with minor children, have minor children and have become unemployed, receive Social Security Disability, are pregnant, or feel that you are disabled, you should apply for Medi-Cal benefits. Can I get CMSP for services received before I applied? No. Your eligibility for CMSP benefits starts with the first day of the month in which you apply for CMSP. Do you have to be a citizen to receive benefits? Yes, you must be a United States citizen or have legal immigration status. CMSP county residents with undetermined immigration status may receive restricted emergency services only.The CMSP has established maintenance needs levels depending on the size of your family. These maintenance need levels are specific income amounts that are allowed for your living expenses. Any amount counted over these limits is considered excess and is your Share-of-Cost what you must pay or obligate to pay toward your medical expenses each month before CMSP will pay for services. What if my property exceeds the requirement limit? If your property exceeds the limit, you will not be eligible for CMSP. Talk to your eligibility worker at the county social services department for more information about acceptable ways to bring down your excess property. Are there income or property restrictions? CMSP has property requirements that must be met to be eligible for program benefits. An individual may only have $2,000 in liquid assets (bank accounts, CD, cash, etc.) during the month. (A home, one car, and personal effects are exempt). Two persons may have $3,000, three $3,150, four $3,300, etc. What if my income exceeds the requirement limit? If your net countable income exceeds 200% of the federal poverty level (FPL), you will not be eligible for CMSP. If your net countable income is above the maintenance need level but below 200% FPL, you must pay a certain amount of your medical bills before CMSP will begin to pay. For example, the maintenance need for one person is $600. If, after certain, limited, amounts are deducted from your gross pay for the month, and your countable net income exceeds $600, that excess amount is your Share-of-Cost. Some of these deductions include health insurance premiums, court ordered child support or alimony, and a $90 standard work deduction. However, if your net countable income is above 200% of the federal poverty level (FPL) you are not eligible for CMSP. What if I move from my county? No matter where you move, you will have to reapply for benefits in that county. But you must tell your eligibility worker that you are moving. Only the participating 34 rural counties have CMSP. The other counties have their own county programs, which may be more restrictive in terms of eligibility criteria or where you may receive services. How do I receive CMSP benefits? When you go to the doctor, pharmacist, or other medical provider, they will verify your eligibility for CMSP, check if you have a Share-of-Cost and how much is remaining on the Share-of-Cost, and determine if there are other applicable restrictions or limitations. When the county determines that you are eligible, you will receive an approval notice, and shortly after, a Benefits Identification Card (BIC) -- a plastic card with your name, identification number, and a magnetic strip on it. In addition, beginning October 1, to receive CMSP benefits you will need to go to a CMSP/Anthem Blue Cross network provider to receive all services, except emergency services. If you receive non-emergency services from a medical provider who is not a part of the CMSP/Anthem Blue Cross provider network, you will be responsible for paying for those services. It is your responsibility to present your BIC and your CMSP/Anthem Blue Cross ID cards to the provider when you get services. What if I disagree with an action the county has taken? If you disagree with an action the county has taken, you may appeal that action by first discussing the action with your eligibility worker and the eligibility worker supervisor. If you remain dissatisfied, you may request a hearing. If you currently have benefits and request a hearing before the date the action is to take place, your benefits will continue until your appeal has been resolved. The county in which you received your benefits is responsible for conducting the hearing and ruling on the issues. What else should I know? You will NOT receive another notice regarding the end date for your benefits because it is your responsibility to reapply for CMSP during the last month of your eligibility term if you would like to continue your CMSP eligibility into another term.Your beginning and end date for your CMSP benefits will be provided to you as a part of the Notice of Action (NOA) you get regarding your eligibility for CMSP. Child Health and Disability Prevention The Child Health and Disability Prevention Program provides complete health assessments for the early detection and prevention of disease and disability in children and youth, offered at no cost to families that meet eligibility criteria. Through the CHDP program, eligible children and youth receive periodic preventive health exams. Preventive health exams can help children stay healthy, find health problems early, and answer many health questions. Children with suspected problems are then referred for diagnosis and treatment. Many health problems can be prevented or corrected, or the severity reduced, by early detection and prompt diagnosis and treatment. Is my child eligible for CHDP services? If your child receives Medi-Cal health benefits, they are eligible for the CHDP program. Children whose families meet the program's income guidelines are also eligible. Call the CHDP program at 707-565-4460 or 1-800-427-8982 to learn if your child qualifies. Who provides CHDP services? Private physicians, community health centers, and some local school districts provide CHDP health assessments at no charge to income-eligible families throughout Sonoma County. Sonoma County has over 50 CHDP provider offices. What else does CHDP offer? Referrals: Parents can connect with a Certified Application Assistor who will help determine which insurance program is best for your child or family. Outreach and Education: The CHDP program can participate in community events such as health fairs and festivals and provide health educational materials to physician offices. The CHDP program has health information on many topics ranging from nutrition to child safety. CHDP Gateway: Using an automated pre-enrollment process, the CHDP program is a "Gateway" for over one million uninsured children to the Medi-Cal and Healthy Families health insurance programs. Health Care Program for Children in Foster Care (HCPCFC): The Sonoma County CHDP program administers this public health nursing program, working with County child welfare services agencies and the probation department to address the medical, dental, mental and developmental needs of children and youth in foster care. Frequently Asked Questions Who do I contact for information on the Sonoma County Medical Marijuana ID Card (MMIC) program? Contact the Office of Vital Statistics at 707-565-4442. For all other California county MMIC programs, contact the California Office of County Health Services Medical Marijuana Program. Where do I apply for a MMIC? The MMIC program for Sonoma County is located at the Office of Vital Statistics at the Public Health offices, 625 5th Street, in Santa Rosa. Application packets can be obtained at Vital Statistics, Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Completed applications are accepted by appointment only on Wednesdays and Thursdays from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Call 707-565-4442 to schedule an appointment. Your application fee will be collected and your photo taken when you submit your application. What information/documentation is required for a MMIC? The qualified patient needs to provide: A completed application. A valid government-issued photo ID, such as a current and valid motor vehicle driver's license or identification card issued by the California Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV). This includes the DMV DL43 "Change of Address Certification Card." Proof of residency within Sonoma County. A piece of medical record that documents that your attending physician has discussed or recommended the use of medical marijuana as part of the patient treatment plan. The application fee. Do I have to be a Sonoma County resident in order to receive a MMIC? No, any California resident that is a qualified patient can apply for a MMIC; however, you must apply for your MMIC in the county where you reside. Proof of residency is required. What can I submit as proof of residency? A current and valid California motor vehicle registration bearing your name and your current residence within the county; or A current and valid motor vehicle driver's license or identification card issued by the California Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV). This includes the DMV DL43 "Change of Address Certification Card;" or A current rent or mortgage receipt or utility bill in your name bearing your current address within the county. Is a medical marijuana recommendation considered a prescription? No. Federal law prohibits doctors from writing prescriptions for illegal drugs. Marijuana is not considered legal by the federal government, and federal law still provides that use or possession of marijuana is a crime. Can my caregiver also obtain a MMIC? Yes. If you designate a primary caregiver on your application form, your primary caregiver must present photographic identification, and complete Section 4 on the form at the same time you submit your application. The application fee for the caregiver card will be based on the application fee of the patient/applicant. Can I obtain my recommendation for medical marijuana from an out-of-county physician? Yes. The attending physician must have a license in good standing issued by the Medical Board of California or the Osteopathic Medical Board of California, but there are no residency requirements for the physician. Can I have more than one primary caregiver? Yes, if your primary caregiver is the owner or operator of a facility providing medical care and/or supportive services to a qualified patient. No more than three employees can be designated as "primary caregiver" by the owner or operator. Can a primary caregiver care for more than one patient at a time? Yes. However, if an individual has been designated as the primary caregiver by two or more qualified patients, the primary caregiver and all the qualified patients must reside in the same city or county. Can I have a caregiver who lives out of the county? Yes. The primary caregiver must prove California residency and is further restricted to being the primary caregiver for only that patient. Can I be a primary caregiver for a resident of another county? Yes, but that will restrict you to being the primary caregiver for only that patient. The primary caregiver, if any, needs to provide: A completed application. A valid government-issued photo ID, such as a current and valid motor vehicle driver's license or identification card issued by the California Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV). This includes the DMV DL43 "Change of Address Certification Card." Proof of residency within Sonoma County. The application fee. Your caregiver's photo will be taken at the time of application. If a qualified patient applies for a MMIC for a primary caregiver, both the primary caregiver and the qualified patient must be present at the time of submission of the primary caregiver's application. It is the applicant's responsibility to ensure that an authorized release of medical information is on file with their medical provider. The attending physician will be contacted to confirm that the medical documentation submitted by the patient is a true and correct copy of the attending physician's records. It is the applicant's responsibility to ensure that an authorized release of medical information is on file with their medical provider. Is my MMIC recognized in other California counties? Yes. This is a statewide identification card program. Does a MMIC protect me from all law enforcement? No. In particular, it does not protect you from federal law enforcement agencies. What information will appear on the MMIC? A photo of the cardholder. A unique user identification number issued by The California Office of County Health Services Medical Marijuana Program. The name and telephone number of the county agency that approved the application. A web-based Internet URL that will enable state and local law enforcement officers, the public and others to have immediate access to verify the validity of the card. The expiration date. What MMIC cardholder personal information is available to anyone (including law enforcement) accessing the MMIC website? No other information is accessible. When the MMIC unique identification number is entered through the MMIC website, a "valid card" or "invalid card" response is generated. How long will a MMIC be valid? If the primary caregiver applies for a card at a later date than the patient's MMIC, the primary caregiver MMIC will have the same expiration date as the patient's MMIC. Qualified patient and primary caregiver cards are valid for one year. How do I renew my MMIC? This includes submitting the application form with supporting documentation and paying the appropriate application fee.Renewing a MMIC requires the same process as applying for a new MMIC. How do I replace my MMIC if it is lost, stolen or damaged? To replace a lost, stolen or damaged card, the applicant must reapply for a new MMIC and repay the current application fee. The Office of Vital Statistics will notify the California Office of County Health Services Medical Marijuana Program to invalidate the Unique User Identification Number (UUID) on the missing card. What is the fee for applying for a MMIC? The current application fee is $160.00. Proof of eligibility and participation in the Medi-Cal program, presented at the time of application, qualifies a Medi-Cal beneficiary to receive a 50% reduction in fees. If the applicant qualifies for this fee reduction and is designating a primary caregiver, the fee for the primary caregiver's application will also be reduced by 50%. Application fees are non-refundable. New Prescription Discount Card Sonoma County has joined with NACo, the National Association of Counties to bring the NACo prescription drug discount program to our community. NaCo, in parthership with CVS/Caremark Rx, offers this program to more than 900 participating counties nationwide.The Sonoma Rx prescription discount card is not an insurance. What is the Sonoma County Rx drug discount program? The NACo prescription drug discount program is called "Sonoma County Rx". This program helps consumers save money on their prescriptions that are not covered by insurance. The free cards are available at many distribution sites in the county, and may be used at any participating retail pharmacies in the county. How much will I save? The average savings is about 22%. Savings range from 13 to 34 percent, depending on the medication. Sonoma Rx cardholders can save even more money, up to 50 percent, by using the mail service for a three-month supply. Discounts are also available for pet prescriptions purchased through retail pharmacies. Who is eligible to obtain and use the card? The Sonoma Rx prescription discount card is provided free to all residents of Sonoma County. The entire family can use one card. If you lose your card, just pick up another card from any one of the many distribution sites in the county. How do I use the card? There are no enrollment fees, no forms to fill out, and no age or income requirements. Just take the card to any participating pharmacy, which is most retail pharmacies in Sonoma County, and receive a discount on the purchase of your prescription. The card covers virtually all commonly prescribed medications. But remember, the discount applies only to prescription medications not covered by your insurance. For more information about Sonoma County Rx, visit www.caremark.com/naco to find a participating pharmacy. 