There are so many great things about the Hudson River Valley. The people are friendly, the scenery is lush and green and there are lots of stunning lakes, streams and rivers close by. There is a wealth of fun and educational historical sites. Dutchess County had many parks and many of them have no entrance fee.

A trip to Dutchess County needn't cost you a lot of cash. If hiking sounds a bit energetic, then how about a Segway tour. With just thirty minutes instruction you will be travelling serenely and noiselessly along the beautiful shores of the Hudson River.

Segway of the Hudson Valley has come to Dooley Square at the end of Main Street in Poughkeepsie, near the train station and is run by Jack Whiteand his son Jason. Riding a Segway is a lot of fun and the training is simple and easy to follow. The tours are around six miles long and last around two hours, so you get to see a lot of great scenery. The maximum speed of the Segway is twelve miles per hour, but you'll be travelling at around six miles per hour. the Hudson River Adventures sightseeing cruises.

These river c ruises on the "Pride Of The Hudson" last for two hours and you'll start and end your journey at Newburgh Landing, Front Street, Newburgh. The cruise heads south on the Hudson River taking in Mount Beacon, Bannerman Island and Castle, and Breakneck Mountain as well as Storm King Mountain, Catskill Water Aqueduct, Cold Spring and Worlds End. At the northern part of the US Military Academy at West Point the ship returns north. On the outward journey you will be treated to a historical talk about all the sights you are passing.

You can buy your tickets in advance or you can purchase them at dock one hour before the cruise starts. T here is a large sundeck up top with a cozy bow area and the main enclosed deck is climate controlled. There is also a bar for drinks and snacks.Choose from a daytime or sunset cruise, you may even wish to do both. A visit to the Buttercup Farm Sanctuary makes for a great day out. Buttercup Farm is located in the northeastern corner of Dutchess County south of Pine Plains. More than 500 acres in size, Buttercup Farm covers an area of over five hundred acres of diverse habitats with open grasslands and woodland and marsh. There are six miles of trails for you to explore. You can see over eighty different species of birds, including nesting Great Blue Herons, Wood Ducks, Bobolinks, Golden-winged and Lawrence's Warblers.

The Sanctuary is open seven days a week from dawn until dusk and it is completely free of charge.

The Beekman Arms Delamater Inn & Conference Center - The Beekman Arms is America's oldest continuously operated hotel, and is best suited for small group functions. Combined with the Delamater Inn, it has 73 guestrooms and a stunning 40 seater conference center with a feature ﬁreplace and French doors. Poughkeepsie Grand Hotel - The Poughkeepsie Grand is a full-service hotel and conference center with 200 guest bedrooms and over than 15,000 feet of ﬂexible space.

The hotel has wireless high-speed Internet, a business center and offers a complimentary American breakfast. The hotel also benefits from indoor parking and a local shuttle service. Bright Horizons at Casperkill - This facility has i ndoor and outdoor recreational and conference facilities available for small or large group outings. You can rent a gymnasiums for child or adult sports events, softball fields for tournaments and leagues; and versatile private rooms for any small or large functions. Mid-Hudson Civic Center - The centre comprises of McCann Ice Arena and Mair Hall which is a huge venue with a capacity for 3,000. Ideal for concerts, trade shows and large banquets. There is 22000 square feet of event space, 19000 feet of exhibit space and eight breakout rooms. Best Western Inn & Conference Center - The Best Western Inn & Conference Center is a full-service hotel with 153 guests rooms, a restaurant, a lounge and over 11,000 square feet of function space.

All rooms have high-speed Internet, and meeting and event planner support is available.