Selecting Vines When selecting vines, there are a number of factors to consider, including their intended use, location in the landscape (ie., sun vs. shade), soil adaptability, type of support needed and color of bloom or foliage characteristics. In addition, you also need to consider the maintenance requirement. Will the vine need constant pruning to keep it within bounds? Certain fast-growing vines, such as wisteria and common honeysuckle, require a great deal of routine pruning. If allowed to spread without restraint, their profuse growth can cover trees and shrubs, reducing light and aeration within the canopy. Kudzu is an excellent example of this. Some vines can even injure or kill small trees by wrapping around them and cutting off nutrient flow. Other vines, like Autumn Flowering Clematis, will disperse its seeds after flowering and may pop up in areas where they are not wanted. Another important consideration is the amount of training a vine requires. Some vines cling and climb naturally while others must be trained to follow the supporting wire, pole or other structure. Therefore, the type of structure on which you intend to grow vines will influence the type of vine you choose. Annual vines are very popular, such as Moonvine (Ipomoea alba), Black-eyed Susan Vine (Thunbergia alata), Sweet Pea (Lathyrus odorata), Purple Hyacinth Bean (Doliches lablab) and Morning Glory (Ipomoea spp.). Annual vines are grown from seed each year. Perennial vines persist from year to year. Foliage may die back in winter and re-sprout in spring. Perennial vine favorites include Trumpetcreeper (Campsis spp.), Carolina Yellow Jessamine (Gelsemium sempervirens) and Clematis (Clematis hybrida). See the table at the end of this publication for a listing of favorite vines and their characteristics. Most vines, except those grown as groundcovers or in pots, require some type of support to grow. Climbing vines can be separated into three basic types: clinging, twining and winding. Clinging vines grasp onto a rough surface by means of rootlets or adhesive disks. Climbing Fig (Ficus pumila), Confederate Jasmine (Trachelospermum jasminoides), Virginia Creeper (Pathenocissus quinquefolia) and Trumpet Creeper (Campsis radicans) are examples of clingers. These types of vines are often used to cover solid surfaces, such as walls and fences. However, clinging vines may loosen mortar between bricks over time and are difficult to remove once they become anchored. Their methods of climbing also can damage wood by clinging too closely, preventing good air circulation and promoting wood decay. Therefore, clinging vines are best suited for trellises or arbors away from solid surfaces. Twining vines climb by encircling upright supports, such as poles, wires and lattice. These vines require mechanical training to follow a support. Examples are Mandevilla (Mandevilla splendens), Wisteria (Wisteria sinensis), Carolina Jessamine (Gelsemium sempervirens) and Morning Glory (Ipomoea spp.) Winding vines climb by means of tendrils; slim, flexible, leafless stems that wrap around anything they contact. One of the best known examples of this type of vine is the Muscadine Grape. Ornamental vines that fall into this category include Maypop (Passiflora spp.), Trumpet Honeysuckle (Lonicera sempervirens), Clematis (Clematis hybrida) and Cross Vine (Bignonia capreolata). Location in the Landscape Most flowering vines require at least one-half day of sun to be vigorous and bloom abundantly. Other vines, like variegated English ivy, will develop more vivid leaf patterns when provided a few hours of morning sun. Vine Supports Twining and winding-type vines are supported best on wires, lattice, trellises and arbors. They need some type of support to help them along when grown on a flat surface. It is recommended that vine supports be constructed from sturdy, durable materials. Always use treated lumber for outdoor structures. Redwood, cedar and cypress are particularly durable in the outdoor environment. A wood preservative/water seal applied after construction will also help prolong the life of the structure. Wrought iron also makes an excellent support. Use aluminum or copper wire to attach plants because it is resistant to rusting. Fertilization If you plant during fall and winter, wait until spring to fertilize. If you plant in the spring and summer, wait four to six weeks for the plants to get established before fertilizing. Then apply a light sprinkling (about a tablespoon) of a complete balanced fertilizer, such as 8-8-8 or 10-10-10 around the perimeter of the planting hole and water it in. Once the vines are established, fertilize in early spring and mid-summer with a complete fertilizer, such as 6-12-12 or 5-10-10 at a rate of 11/2 lb. per 100 sq. ft. A soil sample taken to your local county extension office for analysis can help you determine your soils precise nutritional needs. Pruning Each vine is different, making them require different pruning from each other too. Generally pruning is done to remove dead, diseased and damaged wood, to reduce size and to promote branching. Vigorous vines, such as Honeysuckle, Trumpet Vine and Wisteria may require regular pruning to keep them confined to the support. Usually, flowering vines should be pruned after they bloom. This is particularly true for vines like wisteria and spring-flowering clematis that bloom on previous season's growth. Pruning these vines before they bloom will reduce flowering. The amount of pruning depends on how well and active the vine grows and the amount of foliage you desire. Some vines will form layer upon layer of growth unless they are thinned out regularly. Wisteria, for instance, requires annual pruning to reduce the amount of vegetative growth. Removing approximately 1/3 of the canopy of wisteria each year will encourage the production of short spurs on the remaining branches which will bear next season's flowers. In plant taxonomy, it is classified as Hydrangea anomala ssp. petiolaris. Whereas in layman's terms, it is simply known as climbing hydrangea, because well, it climbs. Climbing hydrangeas are flowering deciduous vines. These plants are true climbers, using "holdfasts" to scale walls. Relatively few hardy flowering vines tolerate shade. Climbing hydrangea plants are one of them. In fact, in hot climates, climbing hydrangeas prefer a location with at least partial shade. Elsewhere, they'll do just as well in more sunny areas. Climbing hydrangeas that do get more sun tend to bloom more profusely. The soil should be moist but well-drained and contain plenty of humus. Newly planted climbing hydrangea vines are slow to grow and slow to bloom. But there's not much you can do about it, other than to start out with the largest plants possible. As for pruning in later years, Marie Iannotti writes, "Once climbing hydrangeas become established, they can grow quite vigorously and may need occasional summer pruning to stay in bounds." 