Stevens developed Hoboken as a resort, withthe people of New York City his market. As early as 1820 he begantransforming the wild but beautiful waterfront into a recreationarea. He constructed a riverfront walk and a park space in today'sdowntown Hoboken. Weekends, the city-to-be accommodated as many as20,000 New Yorkers out for their Sunday picnics. In 1791 hereceived one of the first patents issued in America, for a steamengine. Thirteen years later his vessel Little Juliana steamedacross the Hudson between the Battery and Hoboken.

It was the firststeamboat driven by twin-screw propellers. In 1808 Colonel Stevenslaunched the Phoenix, the first steam-driven vessel to make anocean voyage. Stevensthen turned his attention to rail transportation. By 1825 he haddesigned and built the first experimental steam-driven locomotivein the U.S. and operated it on a circular track in Hoboken. Stevensearlier received the first American railroad charter and designedthe "T" shaped rail, standard to this day on Americanrailroads.

In 1832, Sybil's Caveopened as an attraction serving spring water, and after 1841 becamea legend, when Edgar Allan Poe wrote "The Mystery of Marie Roget"about an event that took place there. Later, at the end of 1880s,when the water was found to be contaminated, it was shut and in the1930s, filled with concrete. Before his death in 1838, Stevens founded TheHoboken Land Improvement Company, which during the mid- andlate-19th century was managed by his heirs and laid out a regularsystem of streets, blocks and lots, constructed housing, anddeveloped manufacturing sites. In general, the housing consisted ofmasonry row houses of three to five stories, some of which surviveto the present day, as does the street grid. The advantages ofHoboken as a shipping port and industrial center becameapparent. Hoboken was originally formedas an official township on April 9, 1849, from portions of NorthBergen Township.

As the town grew in population and employment,many of Hoboken's residents saw a need to incorporate as afull-fledged city, and in a referendum held on March 29, 1855,ratified an Act of the New Jersey Legislature signed the previousday, and the City of Hoboken was born. In the subsequent election,Cornelius V. Clickener became Hoboken's first mayor. On March 15,1859, the Township of Weehawken was created from portions ofHoboken and North Bergen Township.

In 1870, based on a bequestfrom Edwin A. Stevens, Stevens Institute of Technology was foundedat Castle Point, that was a site of the Stevens family's formerestate. By the late 1800s, great shipping lines were using Hobokenas a terminal port, and the Delaware, Lackawanna & WesternRailroad (later the Erie Lackawanna Railroad) developed a railroadterminal at the waterfront. It was also during this time thatGerman immigrants, who had been settling in town during most of thecentury, became the predominant population group in the city, atleast partially due to its being a major destination port of theHamburg America Line. In addition to the primary industry ofshipbuilding, Hoboken became home to Keuffel and Esser'sthree-story factory and in 1884, to Tietjan and Lang Drydock (laterTodd Shipyards). Well-known companies that developed a majorpresence in Hoboken after the turn-of the-century included MaxwellHouse, Lipton Tea, and Hostess.

The first officially recorded game of baseballin US history took place in Hoboken in 1846 between KnickerbockerClub and New York Nine at Elysian Fields. When the USA decided toenter World War I the Hamburg-American Line piers in Hoboken (andNew Orleans) were taken under eminent domain. Federal control ofthe port and anti-German sentiment led to part of the city beingplaced under martial law, and many Germans were forcibly moved toEllis Island or left the city altogether. Hoboken became the majorpoint of embarkation and more than three million soldiers, known as"doughboys", passed through the city. Their hope for an earlyreturn led to General Pershing's slogan, "Heaven, Hell orHoboken... by Christmas."

The Italians,es caping from the the war became the city'smajor ethnic group, with the Irish also having a strong presence.While the city experienced the Depression, jobs in the ships yardsand factories were still available, and the "tenements" were full.Middle-European Jews, mostly German-speaking, also made their wayto the city and established small businesses. During those days, new administrativeorganizations were established, like the The Port Authority of NewYork and New Jersey (April 30, 1921) and new infrastructures werebuilt (The Holland Tunnel completed in 1927 and the Lincoln Tunnelcompleted in 1937), allowing for easier vehicular travel betweenNew Jersey and New York City, bypassing the waterfront. The war provided a shot in the arm for Hobokenas the many industries located in the city were crucial to the wareffort. As men went off to battle, more women were hired in thefactories, some (most notably, Todd Shipyards), offering classesand other incentives to them. Though some returning service mentook advantage of GI housing bills, many with strong ethnic andfamilial ties chose to stay in town. During the fifties, theeconomy was still driven by Todd Shipyards, Maxwell House, LiptonTea, Hostess and Bethlehem Steel and companies with big plantsstill not inclined to invest in huge infrastructure elsewhere. Backto that time, The Unions were powerful and the pay for the workerwas good. By the sixties, though, things began todisintegrate: turn-of-the century housing started to look shabbyand feel crowded, shipbuilding was cheaper overseas, andsingle-story plants surrounded by parking lots made manufacturingand distribution more economical than old brick buildings oncongested urban streets.

The city appeared to be in the throes ofinexorable decline as industries sought (what had been) greenerpastures, port operations shifted to larger facilities on NewarkBay, and the car, truck and plane displaced the railroad and shipas the transportation modes of choice in the United States. ManyHobokenites headed to the suburbs, often the close-by ones inBergen and Passaic Counties, and real-estate values declined.Hoboken sank from its earlier incarnation as a lively port towninto a rundown condition and was often included in lists with otherNew Jersey cities experiencing the same phenomenon, such asPaterson, Elizabeth, Camden, and neighboring JerseyCity. The old economic underpinnings were gone andnothing new seemed to be on the horizon. Attempts were made tostabilize the population by demolishing the so-called slums alongRiver Street and build subsidized middle-income housing atMarineview Plaza, and in midtown, at Church Towers.

Heaps of longuncollected garbage and roving packs of semi-wild dogs were notuncommon sights. Though the city had seen better days, Hoboken wasnever abandoned. New infusions of immigrants, most notably PuertoRicans, kept the storefronts open with small businesses and housingstock from being abandoned, but there wasn't much work to be had.Washington Street, commonly called "the avenue", was never boardedup, and the tightly-knit neighborhoods remained home to many whowere still proud of their city. Stevens stayed a premieretechnology school, Maxwell House kept chugging away, and BethlehemSteel still housed sailors who were dry-docked on its piers.Italian-Americans and other came back to the "old neighborhood" toshop for delicatessen. Some streets were "iffy", but most were notpulled in at night. The waterfront defined Hoboken as an archetypalport town and powered its economy from the mid-19th to mid-20thcentury, by which time it had become essentially industrial (andmostly inaccessible to the general public). The large productionplants of Lipton Tea and Maxwell House, and the drydocks ofBethlehem Steel dominated the northern portion for many years.

Thesouthern portion (which had been a US base of the Hamburg-AmericanLine) was seized by the federal government under eminent domain atoutbreak of World War I, after which it became (with the rest ofthe Hudson County) a major East Coast cargo-shipping port. On theWaterfront, consistently listed among the five best American filmsever, was shot in Hoboken, dramatically highlighting the rough andtumble lives of longshoremen and the infiltration of unions byorganized crime. With the construction of the interstate highwaysystem and containerization shipping facilities (particularly atPort Newark-Elizabeth Marine Terminal), the docks became obsolete,and by the 1970s were more or less abandoned.

A large swathe ofRiver Street, known as the Barbary Coast for its taverns andboarding houses (which had been home for many dockworkers, sailors,merchant marines, and other seamen) was leveled as part of an urbanrenewal project. Though control of the confiscated area had beenreturned to the city in the 1950s, complex lease agreements withthe Port Authority gave it little influence on its management. Inthe 1980s, the waterfront dominated Hoboken politics, with variouscivic groups and the city government engaging in sometimes nasty,sometimes absurd politics and court cases. By the 1990s, agreementswere made with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey,various levels of government, Hoboken citizens, and privatedevelopers to build commercial and residential buildings and "openspaces" (mostly along the bulkhead and on the foundation ofun-utilized Pier A). The northern portion, which had remained inprivate hands, has also been re-developed.

While most of thedry-dock and production facilities were razed to make way formid-rise apartment houses, many sold as investment "condos", somebuildings were renovated for adaptive re-use (notably the TeaBuilding, formerly home to Lipton Tea, and the Machine House, homeof the Hoboken Historic Museum). Zoning requires that newconstruction follow the street grid and limits the height of newconstruction to retain the architectural character of the city andopen sight-lines to the river. Downtown, Sinatra Park and SinatraDrive honor the man most consider to be Hoboken's most famous son,while uptown the name Maxwell recalls the factory with its smell ofroasting coffee wafting over town and its huge neon "Good to theLast Drop" sign, so long a part of the landscape. The midtownsection is dominated by the serpentine rock outcropping atop ofwhich sits Stevens Institute of Technology (which also owns some,as yet, un-developed land on the river). At the foot of the cliffis Sybil's Cave (where 19th century day-trippers once came to "takethe waters" from a natural spring), long sealed shut, though plansfor its restoration are in place. The promenade along the riverbank is part of the Hudson River Waterfront Walkway, astate-mandated master plan to connect the municipalities from theBayonne Bridge to George Washington Bridge and provide contiguousunhindered access to the water's edge and to create an urban linearpark offering expansive views of the Hudson with the spectacularbackdrop of the New York skyline. During the late 1970s and 1980s, the citywitnessed a speculation spree, fueled by transplanted New Yorkersand others who bought many turn-of-the-century brownstones inneighborhoods that the still solid middle and working classpopulation had kept intact and by local and out-of-town real-estateinvestors who bought up late 19th century apartment houses oftenconsidered to be tenements.

Hoboken experienced a wave of fires,some of which proved to be arson. Applied Housing, a real-estateinvestment firm, took advantage of US government incentives torenovate "sub-standard" housing and receive subsidized rentalpayments (commonly know as Section 8), which enabled somelow-income, displaced, and disabled residents to move within town.Hoboken attracted artists, musicians, upwardly-mobile commuters(known as yuppies), and "bohemian types" interested in thesocio-economic possibilities and challenges of a bankrupt New Yorkand who valued the aesthetics of Hoboken's residential, civic andcommercial architecture, its sense of community, and relatively(compared to Lower Manhattan) cheaper rents, and quick, train hopaway. Hoboken became a "hip" place to live. Amid this socialupheaval, so-called "newcomers" displaced some of the "old-timers"in the eastern half of the city. This gentrification resembled thatof parts of Brooklyn and downtown Jersey City and Manhattan's EastVillage, (and to a lesser degree, SoHo and TriBeCa, whichpreviously had not been residential). The initial presence ofartists and young people changed the perception of the place suchthat others who would not have considered moving there beforeperceived it as an interesting, safe, exciting, and eventually,desirable. The process continued as many suburbanites, transplantedAmericans, internationals, and immigrants (most focused onopportunities in NY/NJ region and proximity to Manhattan) began tomake the "Jersey" side of the Hudson their home, and the"real-estate boom" of the era encouraged many to seek investmentopportunities. Empty lots were built on, tenements becamecondominiums.

Hoboken felt the impact of the destruction of theWorld Trade Center intensely, many of its newer residents havingworked there. Re-zoning encouraged new construction on formerindustrial sites on the waterfront and the traditionally moreimpoverished low-lying west side of the city where, in concert withHudson-Bergen Light Rail and New Jersey State land-use policy,transit villages are now being promoted. Hoboken became, andremains, a focal point in American rediscovery of urban living, andis often used as staging ground for those wishing to move to theNew York/New Jersey metropolitan region.

Organizaton ofthe city I find out a that the city is organized as anice s quare street gridwith: Streets running from East toWest - starting in the South (next to Jersey City) with ObserverHighway and Newark Street and then First Street north thru toFourteenth Street (the northernmost east west street next toWeehawken). Avenues runnning from Southto North - starting from the Hudson River to the East at RiverStreet and proceeding West to Hudson, Washington, Bloomfield,Garden, Park, Willow Clinton, Grand, Adams, Jefferson, Madison,Monroe, Jackson, Harrison to Marshall Street (bordering Jersey Cityto the west). Hoboken is directlyaccessible from points south via the New Jersey Turnpike ExtensionExit 14C and from the north via the New Jersey Turnpike LincolnTunnel Extension Exit 16E. Hoboken is ideally situated across theHudson River from Manhattan directly between the Lincoln Tunnel tothe north in Weehawken and the Holland Tunnel to the south inJersey City.

Newark International Airport is only minutesaway.