Let us now look at the tracks on the album.The first track "In the Flesh?" is named after the 1977 tour of the same name, though without the question mark, during which Roger Waters spat in frustration at a fan attempting to climb the fence. An incident he has since said inspired the writing of The Wall. This song sets up the cyclical nature of the album, as the track begins with the words '...we came in?'

This only makes sense if you listen to the album on a loop, as the last track on the album end with the words 'Isn't this where...". The song signifies the beginning of the show narrated by Pink. It is made clear that Pink is going to tell us the story of the building of The Wall. We hear that despite how things look, things are very different "behind these cold eyes" and if you want to discover how things really are then you'll have to claw your way through the disguise. Sound effects of a WWII plane indicate the death of Pink's father. In the film version we see Pink sitting in a hotel room.

A crowd break into the room and the music gets suddenly louder. We then see news footage of riots which will make an appearance again later in the show.Next we see the death of Pink's father as a bunker being bombed in the war. This song in the film is also often thought of as a birth or a beginning.

The hotel room a womb. We see him, unmoving in a fetal position. The crowd rushing through narrow corridor can be thought of as symbolising ejaculation, and the scene and the song ends with a new-born baby crying.We also hear the heart beat sound fromThe Dark Side of the Moon which is first heard as the first words on thetrack are spoken.

Next up we have "Another Brick in the Wall (Part I)". This is the first of three songs set to variations of the same theme. Part I, Part II, and Part III. All of which were written by Roger Waters. Each of the parts has a very similar tune and lyrical structure, but the words differ between each version. Each part is progressively louder and angrier than the one that preceded it. Part I has a sad feeling to it, Part II is protest, and Part III is pure fury. You find aspects of this song in nearly all the other songs on the album too.

In Part 1 the thin ice of the previous song breaks when Pink grows up and begins to understand about the death of his father. Pink is devastated by this and starts to build The Wall. In the film we see Pink's mother praying in a church after the death of her husband during the war. Pink is too young to understand at this point and plays happily with a toy plane. Next we see Pink playing in a park alone. Pink sees a boy and his father and joins them, the man and his son play with him for a while, but Pink becomes too clingy and he is pushed away. He doesn't understand why and is left feeling dejected.

Track 4 on Side 1 of the album is called "The Happiest Days of Our Lives" and begins with 24 seconds of helicopter sounds followed by shouting from the schoolmaster. After that the sound effects stop suddenly and the song begins. The song heavily features bass guitar with added delay, and intense drums and backing vocals lead into the next track. The transition between these songs is very smooth and is often mistaken for being one single track. It's hard to play the first track without the second, so you'll often hear them played as one on the radio. You'll hear a high pitched scream in the join between these songs. That is Roger Waters' scream! Kate Bush once wanted to have a similar helicopter noise as in this song, in the fadeout of her single " Experiment IV ".

Due to technical difficulties recreating the sound she asked Roger Waters for the original tape he was happy to let her use it as long as it was mentioned in the credits. The song tells of Pink being sent to a school run by strict and violent teachers who seem to have a real dislike of children and of Pink in particular. In the film version we see Pink and his friends putting bullets on the railtrack and watching them explode. Pink stands against the tunnel wall as the train passes. He sees that the train is full of people without faces and he sees his teacher at the other end of the tunnel shouting at him to stand still. The next scene shows Pink at school, the teacher redicules Pink by reading out a poem he is writing.

Pink Floyd fans will soon notice that this poem is part of the lyrics from the song "Money" on The Dark Side of the Moon album. The next scene depicts the teacher in his own home and you see the strained relationship between the teacher and his wife. We then see the teacher taking out his own frustrations by spanking a boy. It goes some way to helping us understand that people are they way are for a reason. We know the teacher is wrong, but we start to see why he is the way he is.

Because of how the songs merge together the version released as a single has a guitar intro that isn't present on the album. The song features strong drums, a well-known bass line, distinctive guitar parts in the background and a guitar solo. The song also features a school children on vocals in the second verse and towards the end of the song we hear the sounds of the playground along with the constantly irate teacher.

We then hear a phone ringing and the song ends with a sigh.

The next track, "Mother" is sung by both Roger Waters and David Gilmour.It narrates a conversation by Pink (Waters) and his mother (Gilmour). We learn that his mother is overprotective and she helps Pink to build his wall to protect him from the outside world, not realising she is doing far more harm than good. She cannot cope when Pink grows up and falls in love. In the film version of the song the acoustic guitar is replaced with a celesta. We see a photo of Pink and his wife on the bedside table, and we observe Pink trying but failing to call someone on the phone. Pink puts the phone down and we see a flashback to Pink giving his wife a kiss. Next we see Pink hug a pillow followed by another flashback to himself as a teenager, with his head resting on his mother's chest. Then we see a younger Pink sat outside a school office.

This is followed by a view of Pink again as a young boy in his bedroom. He turns off the light, lights a cigarette and watches with binoculars, a girl across the road undressing. His mother walks in on him and makes him get back on with his schoolwork.

The scene is spliced with images of a grown up Pink watching football on television as his wife undresses in a futile attempt to seduce him. Pink ignores her and simply moves to get a better view of the screen. This is perhaps due to his mother's treatment of him as a boy, adding more bricks to the wall. The scene then changes and we see a young Pink, hot, ill and sweating in bed. His mother is discussing his condition with a doctor outside the room. The light is turned off and we see crazy shadows on the ceiling which remind us of the masks worn by the children in Another Brick in the Wall, Part II. Pink is scared by this and climbs into bed with his mother.

We then move again to see an adult Pink touching his sleeping wife but she moves away from him. We then see young Pink running into his mother's bedroom but lying beside her is the rotting corpse of his dead father. When David Gilmour's guitar solo starts up, The next scene shows Pink at his wedding in a registry office and is accompanied by David Gilmour's guitar solo.

Pink is on the piano, and his wife tried but fails to get his attention. She is obviously hurt, and leaves the room. She finally gives up on him and leaves him for a nuclear disarmament activist. We next see a young Pink in a ballroom dancing class having to dance with a girl much taller girl than him.

We then return to Pink on the bed unable to contact his wife on the phone. He tries one last time, only to hear the voice on the end is his wife's new boyfriend. Pink drops the phone and the song ends.

This is followed by the third and final part of "Another Brick in the Wall". In his anger he decides to complete his wall. He believes he doesn't need anyone in his life at all and wishes to be totally isolated behind the wall. In the film, we see a series of images that remind us of all the events in his life that have led him to this point.

We see all the bricks that have built the wall.

In "The Trial" we Pink's subconscious struggle against his madness overseen by a Judge who is a giant worm. The worms are the bad thoughts mentioned in "Waiting for the Worms". A Prosecutor brings on the various people in Pinks life to explain their actions. Hearing what his mother, his wife and his school teacher have to say makes Pink realises his mental state is not their fault. Yes they made mistakes, but really his issues are his fault. We are not given much of an indication as to hoe Pink tears down the wall. Does he recover and make amends?

A clue in the song The Final Cut from The Final Cut album perhaps indicates not. The lyrics "I'll tell you want's behind The Wall" are accompanied by a shotgun sound effect. Perhaps indicating that Pink escaped from The Wall by committing suicide. This is another animated sequence is the film, again directed by Gerald Scarfe.

We see the school teacher as a puppet controlled by his wife. Mother is shown to be overprotective, and his wife is depicted as a scorpion creature. The Judge is portrayed as a giant pair of buttocks.

He has two backwards facing legs, his mouth is an anus, and he has a scrotum for a chin. This hideous caricature was inspired by a line from Charles Dickens' Oliver Twist.. "The law is an ass".