The figure shows an illustration of the structure of the Sun. Different parts shown in the figure are: 1. Core 2. Radiative zone 3. Convective zone 4. Photosphere 5. Chromosphere 6. Corona 7. Sunspot 8. Granules 9. Prominence The Sun does not have a definite boundary like the rocky planets and in its outer parts, the density of the gases drops almost exponentially with increasing distance from its center. Nevertheless, it has got a well-defined interior structure. The solar interior is not directly observable, and the Sun itself is opaque to electromagnetic radiation. Just as seismology uses waves generated by earthquakes to reveal the interior structure of the Earth, the discipline of helioseismology uses pressure waves traversing the Sun's interior to measure and visualize the star's inner structure. Computer modeling of the Sun is also used as a theoretical tool to investigate the deeper layers of the Sun.

Temperatures in the core are estimated at about 15,000,000 C. The pressures necessary to contain such incredibly hot gases are enormous. Deep in the Sun, energy escapes outward by radiation, but near the surface of the Sun convection occurs, and the Sun's heat is transported by rising currents of hot gas. It takes several thousand years for energy to get from the core to the surface of the Sun. Outer Layers of the Sun The Sun has three visible layers.

These are Photosphere, Chromosphere and Corona Photosphere - The bright surface that is visible to us is the innermost layer, called photosphere. The photosphere looks sharply-defined, but actually the Sun has no solid surface. Deep inside the Sun, electrons are torn free from the atoms and these electrons absorb photons of light. We see down into the Sun to the level where its gases become opaque which is at a distance of about 300 km. This distance is negligible as compared to the Sun's diameter. So the Sun appears to have a very sharp outline.

The surface temperature of the Sun is approximately 5,500 C. Chromosphere - Above the photosphere is the layer of chromosphere, which is about 5000 miles deep. This layer emits faint light of its own, mostly bright red light emitted by hydrogen atoms. During a total solar eclipse, when the photosphere is covered by the moon, the chromosphere becomes briefly visible as a thin red rim of light. Thin and faint as the chromosphere is, in one way it is the most important layer of the Sun. As light from the photosphere shines through the chromosphere, the relatively cool gases of the chromosphere absorb some of the light.

The absorption of light by the particles of chromosphere makes spectroscopy possible and this enables the astronomers to determine the chemical composition of the Sun.

It is called the chromosphere from the Greek root chroma which means color, because the chromosphere is visible as a colored flash at the beginning and at the end of total eclipses of the Sun. The temperature in the chromosphere increases gradually with altitude, ranging up to around 100,000 K near the top. Above the chromosphere is a transition region in which the temperature rises rapidly from around 100,000 K to coronal temperatures which are close to one million K. The increase is because of a phase transition as helium within the region becomes fully ionized due to the the high temperatures. The transition region does not occur at a well-defined altitude.

Rather, it forms a kind of nimbus around chromospheric features such as spicules and filaments. It is in state of constant, chaotic motion. The transition region is not easily visible from Earth's surface, but is readily observable from space by instruments sensitive to the far ultraviolet portion of the spectrum.

- Corona is also visible during a total solar eclipse. It is the outermost layer of the Sun which appears as a ghostly white halo reaching out 500,000 or more miles until it fades into invisibility. Although very thin, the coronal gases are also very hot, over 1,000,000 degrees. Nobody is quite sure yet why the corona is so hot.

All matter in the Sun is in the form of gas and plasma due to its high temperatures. This makes it possible for the Sun to rotate faster at its equator as compared to the higher latitudes. The differential rotation of the Sun's latitudes causes its magnetic field lines to become twisted together over time, thus causing magnetic field loops to erupt from the Sun's surface and trigger the formation of the Sun's dramatic sunspots and solar prominences . This twisting action gives rise to the solar dynamo and an eleven year solar cycle of magnetic activity as the Sun's magnetic field reverses itself about every eleven years.

Sunspots appear dark only because they are cooler and less luminous as compared to the average surface of the Sun. In reality, Sunspots are hotter than many stars and give off appreciable light of their own. It has been found that the sunspots come and go in a cycle of about 11 years. Often the first spots of a new cycle appear before the last spots of an old cycle have disappeared. Another feature of the photosphere is granulation , a polygonal pattern of light patches with dark boundaries. A typical granule is about 300 miles across and lasts for a few minutes. Granules are almost certainly convection cells , where hot gases rise in the interior of the granule and cooler gases sink along the boundary.

Granules are grouped into a larger pattern, called supergranulation which are are about 25,000 miles across. Solar Disturbances and the Earth Solar disturbances ebb and flow with the Sunspot cycle and these are related to the disturbances on earth. Prominences and flares in emit streams of electrons and protons that reach the earth within a day or so after eruption. These particles are trapped in the earth's magnetic field until they build up to a great density to break free. Then bursts of these particles strike the magnetic polar regions of the Earth to cause displays of the aurora and generate enormous electric currents in the upper atmosphere. This can disrupt communications and even damage equipment.

Fortunately, since it takes a day for these particles to reach the earth, it is possible to monitor the Sun and issue warnings when ever major disturbances occur.

Observation and eye damage Sunlight is very bright and looking directly at the Sun with the naked eye even for brief periods can be painful. Looking directly at the Sun causes phosphene visual artifacts and temporary partial blindness. It also delivers about 4 milliwatts of sunlight to the retina, slightly heating it and potentially causing damage in eyes that cannot respond properly to the brightness.

UV exposure gradually yellows the lens of the eye over a period of years and is thought to result in the formation of cataracts, but this depends on general exposure to solar UV and not on whether one looks directly at the Sun. Long-duration viewing of the direct Sun with the naked eye can begin to cause UV-induced, sunburn-like lesions on the retina. Viewing the Sun through light concentrating optical instruments such as binoculars is very hazardous without an appropriate filter which blocks UV and substantially dims the sunlight.. Unfiltered binoculars can deliver more than 500 times as much energy to the retina as using the naked eye, thus killing retinal cells almost instantly. Even brief glances at the midday Sun through unfiltered binoculars can cause permanent blindness. One way to view the Sun safely is to project its image onto a screen using a telescope and eyepiece without cemented elements. This should only be done with a small refracting telescope or binoculars with a clean eyepiece. Partial solar eclipses are hazardous to view because the eye's pupil is not adapted to the unusually high visual contrast. The pupil dilates according to the total amount of light in the field of view, not by the brightest object in the field.

During partial eclipses most sunlight is blocked by the Moon passing in front of the Sun, but the uncovered parts of the photosphere have the same surface brightness as during a normal day. In the overall gloom, the pupil expands from ~2 mm to ~6 mm, and each retinal cell exposed to the solar image receives about ten times more light than it would looking at the non-eclipsed Sun. This may damage or kill those cells, resulting in small permanent blind spots for the viewer. During sunrise and sunset, sunlight is attenuated due to scattering from a particularly long passage through the Earth's atmosphere and the direct Sun is sometimes faint enough to be viewed comfortably with the naked eye or safely with the help of optical instruments. Hazy conditions, atmospheric dust, and high humidity contribute to this atmospheric attenuation. Attenuating filters to view the Sun should be specifically designed for that use. Some improvised filters pass UV or IR rays that may harm the eye at high brightness levels. Filters on telescopes or binoculars should be on the objective lens and never on the eyepiece, because eyepiece filters can suddenly crack or shatter due to high heat loads from the absorbed sunlight.

One of the first people to offer scientific explanation for the Sun was a Greek philosopher named Anaxagoras, who reasoned that the Sun was a giant flaming ball of metal even larger than the Peloponnesus, and not thechariot of Helios. For teaching this heresy, he was imprisoned by the authorities and sentenced to death but he was later released through the intervention of Pericles. Eratosthenes might have been the first person to have accurately calculated the distance between the Earth and the Sun as 149 million kilometers and it is roughly the same as the modern accepted figure. The theory that the Sun is the center around which the planets move was proposed by the ancient Greek Aristarchus and Indians. In the early 17th century, the invention of the telescope permitted detailed observations of sunspots by Thomas Harriot, Galileo Galilei and other astronomers. Isaac Newton observed the Sun's light after passing it through a prism, and showed that it was made up of light of many colors. Herschel discovered infrared radiations beyond the red part of the solar spectrum. During the early years of modern scientific era, the source of the Sun's energy was still a significant puzzle.

Lord Kelvin suggested that the Sun was a gradually cooling liquid body which was radiating an internal store of heat.Unfortunately the resulting estimate of the Sun's age was only 20 million years, well short of the time span of at least 300 million years suggested by some geological discoveries of that time. In 1904 Ernest Rutherford suggested that the Sun's output could be maintained by an internal source of heat, and he suggested radioactive decay as the source. However it was Albert Einstein who provided the essential clue to the source of the Sun's energy output with his mass-energy equivalence relation E = mc2. In 1920 Sir Arthur Eddington suggested that the pressures and temperatures at the core of the Sun could produce a nuclear fusion reaction that merged hydrogen into helium nuclei, resulting in a production of energy from the net change in mass.

Finally, a seminal paper was published in 1957 by Margaret Burbidge which was entitled "Synthesis of the Elements in Stars". The paper demonstrated convincingly that most of the elements in the universe had been synthesized by nuclear reactions inside stars, some like our Sun. This revelation stands today as one of the great achievements of science.