A GPS receiver should be able to getsignals from about 10 satellites at a time in ideal circumstances,but far fewer can be picked up reliably in most real-worldconditions. All the satellites constantly transmitdata-the navigation message-over the same set of frequencies, usingan encoding that allows 50 bits per second (really! 50 bps!) for atotal of 1,500 bits of data to be demodulated from each satelliteeach 30 seconds. On every minute and half-minute, eachsatellite transmits its notion of the precise time and its health,followed by its location and a path in orbit that's valid for aslong as four hours (the ephemeris, pluralized ephermerides). Italso transmits a subset of data about the other satellites inorbit, including a rougher position (the almanac).

It takes 25navigation messages, all received perfectly over 12.5 minutes, toassemble a full almanac. A timestamp is also included as part ofeach 300-bit (six-second) segment or sub-frame of themessage. With the timing information and theephemerides from four satellites, a GPS receiver can performtrilateration, which allows a point to be plotted accurately towithin about 5 to 15 meters (15 to 45 feet).

Although geometricallyonly three satellites are needed, atmospheric effects and otherissues introduce small errors in timing. A fourth satellitecorrects those errors and allows an accurate and corrected time andelevation as well. (Some techniques for assisting or supplementingGPS can avoid the need for a fourth satellite, or even usefragmentary data from two satellites.)

Since it became fullyoperational in 1993, GPS has become a widely used aid to navigationworldwide, and a useful tool for map-making, land surveying,commerce, scientific uses, and hobbies such as geocaching. Also,the precise time reference is used in many applications includingthe scientific study of earthquakes. GPS is also a required keysynchronization resource of cellular networks, such as the QualcommCDMA air interface used by many wireless carriers in a multitude ofcountries. Its History The first satellite navigation system,Transit, used by the United States Navy was first successfullytested in 1960. Using a constellation of five satellites, it couldprovide a navigational fix approximately once per hour. In 1960,the U.S. Navy developed the Timation satellite, which proved theability to place accurate clocks in space, a technology that GPSrelies upon. In 1970s, the ground-based Omega Navigation System,based on single phase comparison, became the first world-widenavigation system.

The design of GPS is based partly on similarground-based radio navigation systems, such as LORAN and the DeccaNavigator developed in the early 1940s, and used during World WarII. Additional inspiration for the GPS came when the Soviet Unionlaunched the first Sputnik in 1957. A team of U.S. scientists ledby Dr.

Richard B. Kershner were monitoring Sputnik's radiotransmissions. They discovered that, because of the Doppler effect,the frequency of the signal being transmitted by Sputnik was higheras the satellite approached, and lower as it continued away fromthem. They realized that since they knew their exact location onthe globe, they could pinpoint where the satellite was along itsorbit by measuring the Doppler distortion. After Korean Air Lines Flight 007 was shotdown in 1983 after straying into the USSR's prohibited airspace,[3]President Ronald Reagan issued a directive making GPS freelyavailable for civilian use as a common good.[4] The satellites werelaunched between 1989 and 1993. Initially the highest quality signal wasreserved for military use, while the signal available for civilianuse was intentionally degraded ("Selective Availability", SA).Selective Availability was ended in 2000, improving the precisionof civilan GPS from about 100m to about 20m.

From a cold start withtypically older GPS receivers-where the receiver has never beenturned on, has been off for several weeks, has lost a batterycharge, or has been moved a few hundred miles since its lastactivation-the entire almanac has to be retrieved over 12.5minutes. And that's outdoors with good overhead visibility.Jean-Michel Rousseau, a staff product manager in the group atQualcomm that handles GPS technology, explained that that's "themaximum time that the user would get a position assuming it hadabsolutely no knowledge of the GPS constellation." While you can still buy certain kinds ofstandalone GPS devices with this lag-like the ATP Photo Finder usedfor geotagging digital camera images-most modern gear usestechniques to have enough information to avoid this cold startproblem. Most chipmakers and manufacturers ofstandalone GPS hardware now claim about 30 to 60 seconds for a warmstart, with a few exceptions. "GPS receivers ship with some defaultalmanac data in memory; as a result a receiver no longer has todecode this data off the satellites," Rousseau said. Qualcomm'sgpsOne, for instance, can fire up in 35 seconds in a device thatworks in standalone mode, with none of the assistance availableFroma cold start with typically older GPS receivers-where the receiverhas never been turned on, has been off for several weeks, has losta battery charge, or has been moved a few hundred miles since itslast activation-the entire almanac has to be retrieved over 12.5minutes. And that's outdoors with good overhead visibility.Jean-Michel Rousseau, a staff product manager in the group atQualcomm that handles GPS technology, explained that that's "themaximum time that the user would get a position assuming it hadabsolutely no knowledge of the GPS constellation." While you can still buy certain kinds ofstandalone GPS devices with this lag-like the ATP Photo Finder usedfor geotagging digital camera images-most modern gear usestechniques to have enough information to avoid this cold startproblem.

Most chipmakers and manufacturers ofstandalone GPS hardware now claim about 30 to 60 seconds for a warmstart, with a few exceptions. "GPS receivers ship with some defaultalmanac data in memory; as a result a receiver no longer has todecode this data off the satellites," Rousseau said. Qualcomm'sgpsOne, for instance, can fire up in 35 seconds in a device thatworks in standalone mode, with none of the assistance availablethat we're about to learn about.

Military The military applications of GPS span manypurposes: Navigation: GPS allows soldiers to findobjectives in the dark or in unfamiliar territory, and tocoordinate the movement of troops and supplies. The GPS-receiversthat commanders and soldiers use are respectively called theCommanders Digital Assistant and the Soldier DigitalAssistant. Target tracking: Various military weaponssystems use GPS to track potential ground and air targets beforethey are flagged as hostile.These weapon systems pass GPSco-ordinates of targets to precision-guided munitions to allow themto engage the targets accurately. Military aircraft, particularlythose used in air-to-ground roles use GPS to find targets (forexample, gun camera video from AH-1 Cobras in Iraq show GPSco-ordinates that can be looked up in Google Earth). Missile and projectile guidance: GPS allowsaccurate targeting of various military weapons including ICBMs,cruise missiles and precision-guided munitions. Artilleryprojectiles with embedded GPS receivers able to withstandaccelerations of 12,000G have been developed for use in 155 mmhowitzers. Search and Rescue: Downed pilots can belocated faster if they have a GPS receiver. Reconnaissance and Map Creation: The militaryuse GPS extensively to aid mapping and reconnaissance.

The GPS satellites also carry a set of nucleardetonation detectors consisting of an optical sensor (Y-sensor), anX-ray sensor, a dosimeter, and an Electro-Magnetic Pulse (EMP)sensor (W-sensor) which form a major portion of the United StatesNuclear Detonation Detection System. Civilian Many civilian applications benefit from GPSsignals, using one or more of three basic components of the GPS:absolute location, relative movement, and timetransfer. The ability to determine the receiver'sabsolute location allows GPS receivers to perform as a surveyingtool or as an aid to navigation.

The capacity to determine relativemovement enables a receiver to calculate local velocity andorientation, useful in vessels or observations of the Earth. Beingable to synchronize clocks to exacting standards enables timetransfer, which is critical in large communication and observationsystems. An example is CDMA digital cellular. Each base station hasa GPS timing receiver to synchronize its spreading codes with otherbase stations to facilitate inter-cell hand off and support hybridGPS/CDMA positioning of mobiles for emergency calls and otherapplications. Finally, GPS enables researchers to explore the Earthenvironment including the atmosphere, ionosphere and gravity field.GPS survey equipment has revolutionized tectonics by directlymeasuring the motion of faults in earthquakes. To help prevent civilian GPS guidance frombeing used in an enemy's military or improvised weaponry, the USGovernment controls the export of civilian receivers. A US-basedmanufacturer cannot generally export a GPS receiver unless thereceiver contains limits restricting it from functioning when it issimultaneously (1) at an altitude above 18 kilometers (60,000 ft)and (2) traveling at over 515 m/s (1,000 knots).

These parametersare well above the operating characteristics of the typical cruisemissile, but would be characteristic of the reentry vehicle from aballistic missile. GPS tours are also an example of civilianuse. The GPS is used to determine which content to display. Forinstance, when approaching a monument it would tell you about themonument.

GPS functionality has now started to moveinto mobile phones en masse. The first handsets with integrated GPSwere launched already in the late 1990 s, and were available forbroader consumer availability on networks such as those run byNextel, Sprint and Verizon in 2002 in response to US FCC mandatesfor handset positioning in emergency calls. Capabilities for accessby third party software developers to these features were slower incoming, with Nextel opening up those APIs upon launch to anydeveloper, Sprint following in 2006, and Verizon soonthereafter.

AGPS The Global Positioning Satellite (GPS) systemcan help you find yourself, or the nearest drycleaner, or a missingChristmas manger, or a hidden geocache. But our expectations of GPSare that it works accurately, instantly, and reliably on all ourdevices. That's asking a bit much from what is fundamentally1990s-era technology. Fortunately, there's help. Assisted GPS(AGPS) and a variety of complements and supplements to GPS canshrink the wait for a positive fix on a location- the Time To FirstFix or TTFF-from multiple minutes down to as little as under asecond without sacrificing accuracy.

Reducing that waiting means your pictures areinstantly tagged with coordinates (geotagged), a map drops a pin onyour current location before the map itself finishes loading, and adevice you're using in a remote location knows right away that it'sin the middle of nowhere. Oh, and Google and others can give youthe right ads for your location without any tedious waiting ontheir part, either. Typically, AGPS systems help a GPS figure outwhere the satellite signals that the receiver is picking up arelocated precisely at that moment. Related systems that aren'ttechnically AGPS use a variety of means to combine with, replace,or enhance GPS data into providing a geographicresult.

Automobile GPSnavigation systems provide drivers with dynamic street and highwaymaps, driving directions, and directories of restaurants,hospitals, car services, and other points of interest (POI). Thisis very helpful since voice prompts and alerts let the driver keephis attention on the road. As of writing, the newest and best GPSsystems contain full-color 3-D street maps, traffic alerts andrerouting, integrated hands-free cell-phone use, and easytouch-screen controls. Some top-end models, such as the Garmin Nuvi660, have wide-screens, FM transmitters so that you can hear yourvoice prompts and alerts through your car stereo system, Bluetoothwireless connection to your cell phone, theft prevention features,long-life battery operation, and more. People who use such systems for the firsttime are usually amazed at the devices' incredible accuracy andalmost-magic capabilities.

They often wonder why they didn't getone sooner and how they could possibly do without one in thefuture. Three Ways To Acquire A Car GPS System One is to buy a new vehicle with thenavigation system already installed. The second method is to buy anaftermarket in-dash unit (e.g., Pioneer) that replaces yourstandard radio or stereo system. And the third method is to buy aseparate portable unit, such as those by Garmin and TomTom, thatcan be easily mounted to your vehicle's dash orwindshield.

Advantages and Disadvantages of Each Method New-car built-in GPS systems offered asstandard equipment or as options on new vehicles are more expensivethan add-on units, often much more expensive. However, the LCDscreens are usually larger, allowing for better visibility,especially while driving. The navigation system's LCD display isusually shared with other systems in the car, such as radio,climate control, and hands-free cell phone. Also, with built-inunits, the antenna and power attachment are already part of thevehicle.

A disadvantage is that built-in sytems are usually a stepbehind in new features and map updates. In-dash add-on navigation systems replace avehicle's normal radio or radio/CD player and typically include alarge LCD display, navigation system, AM/FM stereo, and CD player.Some even include a DVD player to watch movies on the LCD screen(not while driving, of course). The LCD folds into the unit whennot being used. This type of system is ideal for RVs. These systemsare moderately expensive, should be installed by professionals, andusually require installation of an outside antenna. These are notgood for leased vehicles since vehicle modifications are notallowed.

Portable automobile GPS navigation systems ,such as those from Garmin, Magellan, Navigon, and TomTom, have moreflexibility in where and how you use it, the ability to swap theunit from one car to another, can have more features, and are lessexpensive than a factory-installed built-in unit. If you frequentlyrent cars, drive business vehicles, or trade cars often, a portableunit is a great solution. Many such systems easily mount to avehicle's dash or window, allowing quick removal when not beingused. Most new devices have powerful satellite receivers andbuilt-in GPS antennas, eliminating the need for an externalantenna. Some work from batteries while others require the use of apower plug.

It's easy to update portable GPS devices with new mapsand updated software by attaching it to your PC and downloadingfrom the manufacturer's web site. Tracking Devices Another growing use for GPS systems is fortracking vehicles. Car tracking devices are often used by parentsto track teenage drivers, by companies to track delivery vehicleroutes, and by sales people to record vehicle use for tax purposes.These small unobtrusive devices use GPS to periodically recordvehicle location, speed, stops, routes, and times. Depending on thesystem, the data can be viewed in real-time on a PC, or downloadedfrom the device later. When buying a auto GPS navigation system,look for ease of use, voice directions, updatable maps, and abright screen. A touch screen helps if you have to interact withthe unit when driving.

Some all-in-one (AIO) portable GPS unitssuch as the Garmin Nuvi 350, now offer travel-related features suchas language translators, MP3 music players, audio book players, andmore. If you are going to mount it in a vehicle, look for a unitthat provides a mounting method that will work in your particularvehicle.