The arcade game Pong was created by Nolan Bushnell with help from Al Alcorn later in 1972. Nolan Bushnell and Ted Dabney started Atari , which means in Japanese game Go , that same year. Pong arcade game then becomes a smash sensation. In 1975, Atari re-released Pong as a home video game and 150,000 units were sold. In 1976, Atari Inc. was sold by Bushnell to Warner Communications for $28 million. The sale was no doubt aided by the success of Pong.

Atari 2600 History - The Beginning of the End Inevitably, Atari's enormous success led to its own downfall. The company is now being run corporately, and the programmers felt the dissatisfaction of the new management treatment since Atari had gone from a casual and fun workplace under Bushnell's management. The company is now a stuffy, corporate gig having little acknowledgment or reward for a job well done.

The programmers that helped build the Atari's empire left and form their own companies to publish games for the 2600. Since the idea of a console having interchangeable games was still a new concept, and the previous generation of video game systems was all cloning one another, the copyright, patent and trademark laws weren't set up to protect first party console manufacturers. Thus, the market became flooded with games, which were all designed for the 2600 wherein many was made by former Atari programmers who transferred other company. These third-party publishers were able to work around the rights issues by never using the Atari logo by just adding a disclaimer that they were not related to Atari Inc. and that they were only acknowledging the cartridge designed for the "Atari Video Game System". Atari then began to suffer from the same misfortunes bringing on the failure of Pong because of that overwhelming number of companies rushing to get a copy of that 2600 gold. Many of these games were low in content and quality though.

Even Atari's self-published titles began to suffer because of the rushed production cycles and most of their top programmers have already resigned. In 1986, Commodore released a redesigned version of the 2600 as a budget title with the marketing tag line "The Fun Is Back!". The system sold moderately well yet eventually came to an end in 1990. To this day, the Atari 2600 remains the longest selling home video game console ever and many of its more popular titles are seeing re-releases for next-gen gaming consoles and handhelds, and pre-programmed plug-in-play units as retro collections.

Atari 2600's Profile The rise of the 2600 made it into the longest running console model in history, but not without some collateral damage. After Atari conquered homes and arcades with Pong in the early 70s, Atari reinvented the home gaming market with a console unit capable of a constantly growing library of interchangeable games - the Atari 2600, a system that dominated video gaming and broke records over its 13 year history. With success came the dethroning of Atari's founder, and the eventual video game industry crash of '83. Launch Titles: The 2600 released in 1977 along with nine different game cartridges, one packaged with the system (Combat).

Air-Sea Battle Basic Math Blackjack Combat Indy 500 Star Ship Street Racer Surround Video Olympics The 2600 Basics: Year of Release: October 1977 Discontinued: 1990 (Domestic) and 1992 (International) Manufacturer: Atari Inc. Type: ROM Cartridge Based Console Originally Packaged With: Main Console Unit Two Paddle Controllers Two Joystick Controllers Game Cartridge: Combat 1977 - 1982; Pac-Man 1982 - 1992 TV/Video Game Switch Box with VHF Y-connectors and cord. Main Console Unit: The 2600 has wood printed panels, which was designed to look like a piece of furniture over a console or computer. Even though it went through several revisions, its main unit was always rectangular with cartridge slot and option switches at the top-back of the unit, and its Controller ports are in the back, as is the TV/Video cable plug. The most dramatic remodel of the 2600 was the budget version released in 1986, wherein its size was dramatically reduced, with pointy corners, an upward angled top panel and all-black with a silver stripe across it to look more modern. The switches were now squared plastic sliders. The first manufactured version featured six option switches at the top of the unit.

Power - on/off TV Type - color/b&w Player 1 Difficulty Settings - A (normal) B (hard) Player 2 Difficulty Settings - A (normal) B (hard) Game Select - Used to flip through various game modes when available. Game Reset The design of the controller ports became a standard input device for many other systems, which include the Commodore 64. These inputs could be used as well to connect various peripherals in addition to the joysticks and paddle controllers. In the first remodeling, the Difficulty Setting switches were moved to the back panel. Thus, there were only four remained at the top, with two different unit shells available; one all-black and another with wood paneling along the front. Paddle Controllers: These controllers were used mostly for Pong and Breakout style games. The two controllers were connected to a single cord and plugged into one one controller port. Paddles could be turned clockwise and counter clockwise with an orange action button on the left side panel.

Joystick Controllers: The original core system came with two joystick controllers wherein each featured a squared base housing a motion stick and single orange button.