Most of the shows are open to the public, except for certain trade shows where you will need to register with your business license. There is not one single location for gems, minerals and fossils, but rather dealers occupy dozens of locations across the city: many big hotels and most motels are occupied for this occasion, with professionals displaying their specimens in such locations as hotel bedrooms, lobbies, tents, a nd lawns. The premier event of the Gem, Mineral & Fossil Showcase is the Tucson Gem & Mineral Show TM produced by the Tucson Gem and Mineral Society. This show has been held annually since 1955 and is now occupies 181,000 square feet (16,800 m2) of the Tucson Convention Center. All of the shows have attendees from all across the world which includes the general public, experts, beginning collectors, museum employees, dealers, retailers, and researchers. Many museums and universities, such as the Smithsonian Institution and the Sorbonne have displayed at the Tucson Gem and Mineral Show TM. The Tucson Gem and Mineral Show TM and all of these other different shows bring in over 110 million dollars to the local Tucson economy. The Tucson Gem and Mineral Show TM is held at the Tucson Convention Center starting on the second Thursday of February. The first Tucson Gem and Mineral Show TM was held in an elementary school in 1955 and shortly there after moved to a quonset hut at the Tucson Fair Grounds. Then in 1973 they moved into the Tucson Community Center. They occupied the North Exhibit Hall first, then expanded into the Arena and upper Arena concourse. After the completion of the new facility in 1990, which is now called the Tucson Convention Center, the Tucson Gem and Mineral Show TM now occupies the Arena, Exhibition Halls A-B-C, Galleria and Ballrooms. If the deal is too good to be true, it probably is. Remember for the most part you are dealing with people that do this for a living, they are not in business to give you a great deal. If the material in question is way under the going rate, especially if it is a commercially viable stone (Tourmaline, Sapphire, Tanzanite, etc) There is almost for sure a problem. Buyer beware. If you're wondering whether you should ask your friends to get together with you so you can get a better price, you must know this. This sounds like a good idea in theory, but in practice it tends to not work. There are several reasons for this. If you buy, say a kilo, to get a better price, tt will be mixed in sizes and quality, sorting it out is usually a problem (assuming there is someone with the skill and time to do it). Naturally, everybody wants the best ones and not everyone is going to get the one they want. What do you do with the material in the parcel that nobody wants (small, flawed, etc), especially to pay for? Not everybody will pick the same kind of rough for various reasons. How do you make everyone happy? If you want top rough, buying in quantity is not really the way to do it, at least in a group. Buying hand select parcels would be a better option. Buying in parcels is generally the right way to buy good rough and get a decent price. You will not get good top rough cheap. Remember that if you are buying parcels the dealer is giving you a break on the price. But you could and probably will be getting into expensive territory fast, most dealers want to sell a decent quantity in a parcel to make it worth their while. Be prepared to have to spend a reasonable amount of money. "Parcel" does not usually mean hand picked by you. They are two different things and prices. It depends on the dealer, some prefer their rough hand selected, which means it is good rough. They sell it in parcels, but they are parcels they themselves have selected. If you want to cherry pick (all of the large rounds for example), well that is a different price and I think most dealers are going to tell you the same thing. To most dealers a parcel is exactly that, a group of rough in mixed sizes and shapes. There is a lot of man-made and synthetic around, and a lot of it is being sold as real. You can and will get burned if you are not careful. Amethyst, Citrine, Ametrine, are very common. Emerald, Ruby, Sapphire, and Tanzanite are also starting to be seen pretty often. Be aware that there are man-made materials being sold as natural rough and check carefully. If you are not sure, or the dealer seems a little off, then do not buy it. Ask. A lot of dealers (jewelers too) are going with the "Don't ask, Don't tell" theory on man-made stones. Remember not all of them will tell the truth or sometimes even know if the stones are natural. They may have bought them from someone else and assumed it was real. The funny thing about the "Don't ask, don't tell." way of doing business is that a lot of dealers get caught also. Always ask. Even if you think it is a dumb question, ask anyway. Questions are free. If you want to buy a Native Cut Stone, and use it as preform, be cautious. Remember that there is a huge amount of man-made material being sold as real, especially cut (it is a lot harder to tell when cut). Quartz is not a good idea, neither is any type of Sapphire. It is just too easy to get taken. Tourmaline is a possible, there are no good fakes yet. Garnets are also possible, but usually anything good is expensive. Unless you are very good at judging shapes and yields. I would say proceed with caution. If you are not careful, the yields will come out a lot lower than you think. The main reason for this is that you will have to cut off a lot of rough to get the proper pavilion angle, on a bellied cut. It ruins your yield. A lot of times you really would be better off paying more for what you want in a piece of rough material that seems more expensive, but is actually not when you figure it all out. Look at all rough in different lighting conditions before you buy it. Get it out from under the show case lights (where it is at it's best) and look at it in normal mixed conditions. Also check under incandescent and florescent, this applies to Sapphires and Spinels in particular. These materials tend to have pretty dramatic color shifts depending on the light. They often look nice one way and bad another, in mixed light the stone should look good to you, color wise. If the color is dark or ugly in mixed light you probably do not want the rough. If the rough looks oiled or treated, walk away. Period. The only real reason for oiling rough is to hide flaws, they will tell you it is to help keep the dust down or some other excuse. The dealer is already lying to you. Do you want to do business with them? Watch carefully, look and see what the dealer has cut in his cases. The vast majority of dealers have cut stones for sale, both foreign and American. It is very common practice for them to go through their rough and cut the best stones (I call them cherries, as in cherry picking). Usually the rough that they have out is the leftovers from this process. Often a piece of rough that may look pretty good to you, has a hidden problem. That is why it is still rough and not cut in the case for sale for a lot more money. Be very careful and check the rough thoroughly. This does not mean that you cannot find something that you want to cut. But it does mean that the odds are not on your side. Know the prices. Watch for "Show Fever". Do not get show fever. Do some research. Know the going rates on the material you are looking for. Just because it is at the show does not mean it is a good deal. A good quality 10x Loupe (10x Loupes). A quality 10x loupe is a must when looking at and buying faceting rough at any Gem Show. You might prefer a smaller one to carry when you are at a Gem Show since it obviously is easier to fit into a pocket. There's quite a few people that carry one on a string around their neck during the show. It will help keeping you from losing one, although many carry theirs too in pocket or fanny pack. Always loupe a piece of rough. It may look good to your naked eye, but always check. Brass Calipers (Calipers). A good pair of inexpensive brass calipers is very handy when trying to decide on a piece of facetimg rough. You can get a good idea of what size the piece of rough is, and also what it will finish out to, in a cut gemstone. Also, you can use them a lot to estimate the amount of loss on a piece of rough if it has some flaws. Flash Light. A good flash light is also a must for looking at faceting rough. The MAGLITE flashlights might be a good choice. Carry a AA (2 cell) that has a belt pouch; it is very handy. Use rechargeable batteries since they are more cost-effective, but if you are traveling sometimes the charger can be a hassle. Pick a smaller one that takes AAA (2 cell) batteries that fits in your shirt pocket. Walmart carries them pretty cheap. Bulbs. Be sure and bring some extra bulbs (there is one extra in the end of the MAGLITE flashlights). Zip Lock Bags. Always try to carry a few different sizes of zip lock bag's with me. The type that have a white place on them for writing down information is good. You would be surprised at how many dealers do not have anything to put rough in, after you have bought it. Having bags and being able to write information on them (like how much, where you bought it, etc) is very handy and can often save you a headache later. Refractol. A jar of Refractol is a good idea, especially if you are a beginner. It can be kind of a hassle to carry around (along with tweezers and paper towels for cleaning up), but well worth having on hand if you are not sure how clean the piece of rough you are looking at is. Always ask before using refractol and always clean up well when you are done. If you are more experienced (or as you gain experience) you will not need it. Gram Scale (Scales). Use a scale that is accurate to .1g and will weight up to 100 grams at a time. It may sound like a lot to weigh, but if it is Quartz or something like that it is not a lot. Also the .1 (1/2 carat) accuracy is good enough for most things and will at least give you an idea of how accurate the dealers scale is, if you are in doubt. Also, believe it or not you will encounter dealers that do not even have a scale with them.