The Peabody Orlando offers a full range of Orlando hotel packages and specials to appeal to all ages and tastes. Choose from our distinguished collection of Orlando hotel specials, designed to help you fulfill your dream vacation in this traveler's paradise, including: Lights…Camera…Action Package The Peabody Touch Of Romance The Peabody Escape Click here for more about our Hot Dates for Meetings & Group Specials Lights…Camera…Action Package*... Hooray for Hollywood! With our Lights…Camera…Action package, you'll feel like a movie star when you check into The Peabody Orlando and experience Universal's Island of Adventure and the Universal Orlando theme parks, which are just minutes from our front drive. The package includes: Peabody Superior guestroom One-day admission for two adults to Universal's Island of Adventure and Universal Orlando theme parks** Complimentary valet parking Evening turndown Rate: $229 per night including tax, (two-night minimum stay) in a Superior Room. Additional nights at value rate plus tax. Click here for Rates & Availability. *Package is subject to availability; some restrictions may apply ** Universal Orlando Parks and Clubs tickets are valid for seven consecutive days from day of first use, and are not valid for separately ticketed concerts and special events. Some venues require 21 or older for admission. Proof of ID required. Does not include admission to Universal Cineplex. "The Peabody Touch of Romance" Orlando Hotel Package… Devote the evening to romance with a luxury vacation in this magical place. Treat your special someone to an evening in one of our deluxe guest rooms, and enjoy complimentary champagne, flowers, and welcome cocktails for two. Dinner is on the house at Capriccio Grill Italian Steakhouse, our renowned restaurant specializing in U.S. Prime Steaks and chops, seafood and pasta. This heartwarming and romantic Orlando hotel package includes: One night's luxurious deluxe accommodations Bottle of champagne Bouquet of flowers Welcome cocktails for two $150 Credit for Dinner at Capriccio Grill Italian Steakhouse Complimentary Full American breakfast for two (room service or B-Line Diner) Access to the Peabody Athletic Club VIP turndown service Complimentary valet parking. Rate $450 for the first night including tax; additional nights available at $225 plus tax. Guest is responsible for additional charges or values over allotted amounts.* Click here for Rates & Availability. *Package subject to availability, some restrictions may apply. "The Peabody Escape" Orlando Luxury Vacation Package… Make your escape from everyday hassles with this indulgent Peabody Orlando hotel package. Pampering begins with deluxe guestroom accommodations and complimentary valet parking. Savor some of the finest cuisines in any of our award-winning restaurants. Designed for total relaxation, this Orlando luxury vacation package includes: One night stay in luxurious deluxe accommodations Complimentary Continental Breakfast for two (room service or B-Line Diner) $100 food and beverage vouchers to be used during stay Complimentary use of Peabody Athletic Club Free valet parking Rate: $299 per per night including tax; additional nights available at $199 plus tax. Guest is responsible for additional charges or values over allotted amounts.* Click here for Rates & Availability. *All packages are subject to change without notice, based on availability and not offered to groups or conventions. Food and beverage credits must be used in outlets during actual stay. Click here for more about Local Orlando Conventions & Events. Experience the elegance and Southern hospitality traditions of The Peabody Orlando - a Mobil Four-Star, AAA Four Diamond hotel located directly across from the Orange County Convention Center. 