FLAME DESIGNS If you are looking for different flame designs to be used for several ornamental reasons, here are some for you. You can also learn how to make fire or flame effects using Photoshop because the steps are provided. But always remember that playing with the real flame is bad and dangerous.

Dramatic Text on Fire Effect Flames are hard to render in Photoshop; however, this tutorial will show you how to use a fire photograph to set text to the match. The End Effect This gonna be the result of this tutorial. Part 1-The Background Create a new document in Photoshop at 1920px wide x 1200px high, and with the Gradient Tool (G), draw in a radial gradient of browns (#5c3d09 to #1f1409) so you get something like what is shown below. Notice that the gradient is not centered vertically but sits toward the top. In this image we want the top of the text to be on fire, so the top part of the image should be a bit more lit up. Step 3 Now, set the layer to Overlay and to blend the texture into the background.

Step 4 Just to add a bit more texture, let's run the Texturizer filter. To do this, create a new layer and fill it with a brown/beige color-#66500f. Then go to Filter > Texture > Texturizer and use the Canvas texture with 80% Scaling and Relief set to 4. Step 5 Once you have your texturized layer, set that to Overlay. This adds some extra fine detail to the texture since you're working on a big canvas. Step 6 Next, apply a layer to slightly desaturate the bottom half of the image. This is so that the top looks like it has a warmer glow where the flames are, while the bottom looks a little colder. So create a new layer and fill it with the color #4b4f3b. Then add a layer mask with a gradient to mask out the top and fade down Now set the layer to Color and 45% Opacity.

Part 2-Text + Glow = Awesomeness Here, the text is placed in the color #cb9328, then set it to Linear Dodge (Add) with an Opacity of 8%. What you're going to do here is make the text look like the top half of the text is coming out of the background and is red hot with flames flickering off, which means you're going to run a lot of effects and apply layer masks to them so that only the top half shows while the bottom half reverts to faded out text. Step 8 So, first create a new layer group to put all the text layers in-because there will be a lot of them. Then duplicate the text layer and set the color of the duplicate text to #5e3f1c. Step 9 Now set the newest text layer to Overlay and 70% Opacity. It should look kind of reddish as shown below. Step 10 Now duplicate the text again and set the latest duplicate to a yellowish color-#cb9328.

Then set this to Linear Dodge (Add) and Opacity 30%. Next, we add a layer mask and draw a gradient so the latest text layer fades out as shown below, and below you can see the reddish colored combination of the bottom two text layers. Step 11 Next duplicate the text layer yet again, but put this layer right on the bottom. Set the color to black-#000000. Then go to Filter > Blur > Gaussian Blur and it will ask you to rasterize the text, click yes to that, and then set the Radius to about 4px.

Then Ctrl-click any of the other text layers and go back to the black layer and hit delete so you are just left with a sort of shadow. Then duplicate this layer and merge it with the first so the effect is heavier. You should have something that looks like the screenshot below.

Step 12 For once, add a layer mask so the shadow quickly fades out as shown making it look like the text is coming out of the page. Step 13 Now duplicate your black layer again and using the Smudge Tool (R) and a largish soft brush, just smudge the shadow around so it looks like burn marks. Step 14 Here's how your text will look now. Step 15 Now it's time to make the top part of your text glow. So, duplicate the text layer again and place this layer at the very top and set it to a yellow color-#dc9a08.

Next is to run a Filter > Blur > Gaussian Blur over it with Radius of 8px. Then grab a large soft eraser brush and erase away parts at the bottom for it will become uneven. Step 16 Set our first glow layer to Soft Light. You might want to repeat the process, erasing even more so the top part is even glower. Step 17 Now duplicate the text layer yet again and place this at the very top. This one should be again the same yellow (#dc9a08). Then go to Layer > Rasterize > Type and turn the text into a flat graphic. Then Ctrl-click the layer and go to Select > Modify > Contract and use a value of 1px.

Then press Delete to delete everything except that 1px outline. Step 18 Now set the 1px layer to Overlay, and you should have something like the image below. Step 19 Now to your 1px glow, add a layer mask to fade it out down the bottom as you've been doing with the other layers. Then duplicate the layer, and run a Filter > Blur > Gaussian Blur set to 1px. Then duplicate this layer again and blur it by 2px. Then duplicate the layer again and blur it by 4px.

Ctrl-click any of the text layers, press Ctrl+Shift+I to inverse the selection and go through each of the glow layers and press Delete to remove any of the blur that has strayed out of the boundary of the text. What we are trying to do here is for the text's edges to look red-hot with it fading in to an overall hot glow on the text. Step 20 Next, you duplicate all four of the glow layers and merge them together resulting in a layer on top which is the original bright yellow. Grab the Smudge Tool and run over the text, smudging it up to look like heat waves coming off the text, as shown below. Step 21 Now set this latest layer to Overlay and you should have something look like this Step 22 You may consider going through and duplicate some of the glow layers to make it look even more fiery. You can experiment with getting a real red-hot glow look by doing so. Step 23 Adding a quote underneath your main text may provide a nice decoration to the page. Try to use colors that fit in with the background and text layer so it doesn't stand out too much since this is just to be a secondary element to the main text.

Here, what's used is Swiss Light Condensed as the font Part 3-The Flames Finally, it's time to add the actual flames. For this, you need some images of fire set against a plain black background. A good photo is hard to find, so try your best to look for a good fire picture that you can copy. The technique in copying the flames over is actually really simple.

What you need to do is: Open up the flame image in Photoshop Go to the Channels tab and find the channel with the highest contrast, which for images of fire should be the Red Channel, and click on it This will make your image appear black and white, and because we're on the highest contrast layer, it will seem really bright white. Now Ctrl-click this channel and it will select all the pixels in that channel. Click back to the RGB channel and copy the selected pixels You can now paste the flames into your main canvas! This is actually a really, really useful technique for copying something translucent like fire off a flat background. Step 25 Here the flame picture's pasted on to the main canvas. Temporarily switched off the text layers. As you can see, you've got the fire without the black background and it's partially transparent, which means it'll look super on top of your text. Step 26 Now, the next thing to do is to cut up your one bit of fire into a few pieces.

Just duplicate the layer and switch off one as a backup first. Then using the Pen Tool, cut up the fire, so you work with the contours of the flame for it looks natural. Here you can see four pieces produced flames from the one image. You can also try flipping bits around to make them seem more random. Set the layers to Screen mode so that any remaining black parts are totally gone, and it's even more transparent. Step 27 Now since the example text is just four letters, you need four separate pieces of fire.

Here, the fourth one (on top of the E) was actually grabbed from the picture source and repeated the same process as earlier to create another flame. Also, the fire on the letter I has been squashed a little to make it look more random. Step 28 Applying the fire is really as easy as moving the flames over the text.

You may try to match the flames to the shape of the letter to be able to look like they are dancing off the letters. Step 29 Here the all four bits of flame were placed over the top. It's not bad, but you can see that the I and the R have the same flame and also all the flames aren't very tall. Step 30 So here, all the flames have gone through using the Transform Tool stretched vertically. A bit of judicious erasing was made to make the flame on the I look a little more unique. Step 31 Now to make them look even more lit up, duplicate each flame layer, run a Filters > Blur > Gaussian Blur with a Radius of 3px and set the layer to 15% Opacity so it provides a bit of glow around the edges of the flames. Step 32 This is how your composition looks. Step 33 Finally, add the last highlight.

So create a new layer above all the others and draw in a white to black radial gradient as shown. Set this layer to Overlay and 40% Opacity. And there you have it, a text on fire effect!

Different flame designs have different meanings or connotations depending on one's belief. People are getting themselves tattooed because they have their own meaning as to why that design is best for them. However, as mentioned, be careful and think for several times before giving your body inks that will last for a lifetime for aside from its beauty, it also has disadvantages that you might regret in the long run.