US Capitol is the most recognized symbol of democratic government all over the world and it has been a meeting place for US 1800. The Congress meets here to write the laws of the nation, and this is the place where presidents are inaugurated and they deliver their annual State of the Union messages. For almost two centuries, the US Capitol has grown along with the nation, with addition of new wings in order to accommodate the ever increasing number of senators and representatives due to the entry of new states in the Union. Its ceilings of US Capitol have have been decorated with historic images, and the halls have been lined with statuary and paintings representing great events and people in the history of the nation. Although it is not located in the geographic center of the District of Columbia, the US Capitol is the focus by which the quadrants of the district have been divided. Curiously, the west face, which is generally taken to be the "front" of the building, is in fact its "back" and the true front is the east face. History of US Capitol The Early Capitol The original Capitol had been designed by Dr. William Thorton, and its cornerstone was laid by President George Washington on September 18, 1793. Its early construction was directed Benjamin Henry Latrobe and Charles Bulfinch, along with other architects. In the year 1800, when the US government moved from its temporary quarters in Philadelphia to Washington DC, the Capitol was an unfinished brick and sandstone building at that time. The Congress moved into the small, cramped north wing of US Capitol. At first, the House met in a large room on the second floor that was intended to be used as the Library of the Congress and the Senate met in a chamber on the ground floor. During 1810 to 1859, the Senate used a chamber on the second floor which is now known as the Old Senate Chamber. The south wing on the US Capitol was completed for the House of Representatives in 1807. A wooden walkway across the vacant yard, which was intended for the domed center building, linked the House and the Senate wings. This was how the US Capitol appeared in August 1814 at the time of America's second war with Great Britain. During the war, the British troops burned the Capitol and other public buildings in Washington. Most of the interior was gutted. but the exterior walls survived. The reconstructed wings of the Capitol were reopened in 1819. The center building was completed in 1826 and it joined the two wings. A low dome made from wood and copper, covered the Rotunda. Dome and Capitol Extensions A number of new states had been admitted to the Union by 1850 and as a result, the House as well as Senate had out-grown the size of their chambers. It was decided to make the Capitol bigger by the addition of grand wings to the ends of its original building. In 1851, Daniel Webster, delivered one of his famous orations at the laying of the cornerstone for the new wings of the Capitol. The House occupied the current chamber in 1857, and the Senate moved into its current chamber in 1859. Later on, the Old Hall of the House was dedicated as National Statuary Hall. Each state was invited by Congress to contribute two statues of its most notable citizens. Even today, these statues have been displayed in corridors and Statuary Hall throughout the building. The new cast-iron dome was designed by Thomas U Walter. The Statue of Freedom, made by the American artist Thomas Crawford, was placed at the top of the dome on December 2, 1863. This is at a height of 287 feet above the East Plaza. The terraces that run across different elevations of the Capitol were designed by the landscape architect, Frederick Law Olmstead in the 1870s. Extra rooms and a grand pedestal were provided for the Capitol by these terraces. Changes Made in The Twentieth Century The need for extra space again became acute with the opening of the twentieth century. The first House was completed in 1908 and Senate office building was completed in 1909. These buildings are connected with the Capitol with the help of tunnels and electric subway cars. Major renovations of the Capitol's exterior had to be made due to the severe deterioration of the original sandstone walls. Between the years1958 and 1962, the East Front was extended by thirty-two feet and the original facade was replicated in marble. Portions of the old outside walls are still visible inside the East Front corridors. The West Front was repaired and restored in the 1980s and it is the only portion of the original exterior which has not been covered by any marble additions. At present, the underground tunnels and an underground railway connect the main Capitol building with each Congressional office building in the surrounding complex. All rooms in the Capitol have been designated as either S - for Senate or H - for House, depending on their location with respect to the Rotunda. Similarly, rooms in the Congressional office buildings have been designated as HOB which stands for House Office Building, which are located to the south of the Capitol or SOB which stands for Senate Office Building, which are located to the north of the Capitol. Moreover, each and every addresses in Washington, D. C. has been designated NE, NW, SE, or SW with respect to the to the Rotunda. AS the Capitol Rotunda is not in the center of the District, the four D.C. quadrants do not have the same shape and size. Since 2001, East Front of the Capitol which was the site of most of the Presidential Inaugurations until Ronald Reagan broke this tradition in the year1981, has been the site of construction for massive underground complex, which has been designed to facilitate an orderly entrance for the visitors to the Capitol. Once construction is complete, the East Front will be restored to its earlier appearance. Prior to this, visitors to the US Capitol had to queue on the parking lot to ascend the stairs. After this the entry was made through massive sculpted Columbus Doors, through a small narthex that had cramped security and then directly to the Rotunda. The new underground facility will be able to provide a grand entrance hall, a visitors' theater, exhibition room, dining and restroom facilities. This will be apart from the space for building necessities such like an underground service tunnel. Grounds The Capitol Grounds cover almost 274 acres with the grounds proper that consists mostly of lawns, streets, drives, walkways and planting areas. The present grounds were designed by noted American landscape architect named, Frederick Law Olmsted, who had planned the expansion and landscaping that was performed from 1874 to 1892. In 1875, Olmsted proposed construction of the marble terraces on the north, west and south sides of the building as one of his first recommendations, that exist even today. Olmstead had also designed the Summer House, the open-air brick building that is located just north of the Capitol. Three arches open into a hexagonal structure. This encloses a fountain along with twenty-two brick chairs. The fourth wall holds a small window and it looks onto an artificial grotto. Built between 1879 and 1881, the purpose of the Summer House was to answer complaints that the visitors to the Capitol had no place to sit and they also had no place to obtain water for their horses or for themselves. Modern drinking fountains have replaced Olmsted's fountain for the latter purpose. Olmsted had also intended to build a matching Summer House on the southern side of the Capitol and due to the Congressional objections the project was cancelled. The Rotunda In spite of the fact that it serves no legislative function, the Rotunda is the heart of the Capitol. It is a ceremonial center which holds state funerals for presidents from Abraham Lincoln to Lyndon Johnson along with military heroes, distinguished members of Congress and eminent citizens. Visiting heads of state are received in the Rotunda at the same time, memorable events are celebrated here. Hanging on the walls of the Rotunda are four giant canvases which have been painted by John Trumbull along with aide-de-camp to General Washington, who had recorded the scenes of the American Revolution. Paintings depicting scenes associated with the discovery and settlement of the United States have been added by four other artists. On the canopy, that has been suspended 180 feet above the floor of the Rotunda, the Italian-American artist Constantino Brumidi has painted The Apotheosis of Washington . Washington surrounded by symbols of American democracy as well as technological progress have been depicted here. A number of rooms and corridors of the Capitol have been painted by Brumidi and the frieze that rings the Rotunda was being painted by him when he died. His work was completed by other artists and it illustrates major events in the history of this nation. The events that have been portrayed at the end of the frieze actually took place many years after Brumidi's death. This is an appropriate suggestion of the continuity of history. Up to four US flags can be seen flying over the US Capitol. Two flagpoles are located at the base of the dome on the East as well as the West front. These flagpoles have flown the US flag day and night ever since World War I. The other two flagpoles are located above the North and South wings of the building and these two flags fly only when the chamber below is in session. The flag located above the House of Representatives is raised or lowered by pages. A number of auxiliary flagpoles located on the west of the dome which are invisible from the ground, are used for meeting Members' requests for flags that are flown over the Capitol. Constituents of the Members of Congress pay in order to have a US flag flown over the Capitol for a short duration to commemorate a variety of events like death of a veteran family member, birthday, etc. The Committee System - Due to its high volume and complexity of work, the Senate has divided its tasks among twenty committees, sixty eight subcommittees and four joint committees. The Senate committee system is quite similar to that of the House of Representatives, but it has its own guidelines and each committee adopts its own rules within these guidelines. This creates a considerable variation in different panels. Here are some of the Committees: 1. Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry 2. Appropriations 3. Armed Services 4. Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs 5. Budget 6. Commerce, Science, and Transportation 7. Energy and Natural Resources 8. Environment and Public Works 9. Finance 10. Foreign Relations 11. Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions 12. Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 13. Judiciary 14. Rules and Administration 15. Small Business and Entrepreneurship 16. Veterans' Affairs 17. Indian Affairs 18. Select Committee on Ethics 19. Select Committee on Intelligence 20. Special Committee on Aging 21. Joint Committee on Printing 22. Joint Committee on Taxation 23. Joint Committee on the Library 24. Joint Economic Committee The US Senate Caucuses - Informal congressional groups and organizations of various Members with common interests in specific issues or philosophies have been a part of the policy making process since colonial times. These groups organize themselves without any official recognition by the chamber and are these are not funded through the appropriation process. Within the Senate, there is one caucus that is officially recognized. It is "The Senate Caucus on International Narcotics Control" and it was established by law in the year 1985. Origins & Development of the United States Senate The framers of the US Constitution deliberated at length over the role of Senate in the new federal government. Since that then, the Senate has evolved into a complex legislative body and at the same time it has remained true to its constitutional origins. Original Ledger Found - "Probably the oldest book of consecutive accounts that has been kept by the government officers, is a time-worn volume, " noted an 1885 newspaper article. Marked as S-1, this financial ledger has got the records that are nearly a century of salary and mileage payments made to the senators, from 1790 to 1881. McCook recognized the ledger's importance, got it restored and rebound it in 1884. Future employees were not as careful as the previous ones. During the early 1960s, S-1 and nearly sixty other financial ledgers were stored in the Capitol basement and then forgotten. Rediscovered in late 2002, this collection is a unique treasure of Senate history. It has been digitized by the Library of Congress and is available online. January 19, 1863 As the Civil War continued its bloody course during early 1863, the Senate chamber was used as a theater for reading a narrative poem that was inspired by the conflict. President and Mrs. Abraham Lincoln joined the large audience on January 19 to hear the celebrated actor James E. Francis Janvier's "Sleeping Sentinel" was read by Murdoch. The poem recounted the story of Private William Scott, who was ordered to be shot for sleeping at his guard post in the year 1861. The story acquired its dramatic element when Lincoln intervened with the pardon which spared Scott's life. January 21, 1861 In a scene of high drama, Mississippi Senator Jefferson Davis and his four southern colleagues rose on the Senate floor to offer their final remarks before withdrawing from the body and returning to their respective states. Davis' face was drawn with pain and illness while he stated his belief that sovereign states had the right to leave the Union. Mississippi had reached the decision because "we are about to be deprived of the rights in the Union which our fathers bequeathed to us." When he finished, there was a momentary silence that gave way to a burst of applause accompanied by the sound of open weeping. Within weeks, Davis became president of the Confederate States of America and he held this position throughout the Civil War. January 22, 1917 For the first time in the history of the nation, a president of the United States came to the Senate chamber to formally address the members of the upper house. This unprecedented gesture signaled a special purpose. Woodrow Wilson had decided the Senate chamber would be an ideal stage to proclaim his intentions to lay the foundations for "peace without victory" among the nations which were engaged in World War I. His address raised a spark of hope that people of good will might come forward to end the hostilities that threatened to destroy the European civilization. Subsequent military actions erased the hope, but Wilson pressed on in his desire to serve as a peacemaker, even after the United States entered the conflict eleven weeks later. 