Celebrating Mother's Day Mother's Day is celebrated withenthusiasm in over 46 countries world. Though Mothers Daycelebrations take place at different times in different countriesbut what is common are the feelings associated with the day. Thereason for this is that the mothers are as caring in East as theyare in the West.

All over the world, people love to celebrateMothers Day with their mothers and shower love onthem.

Mothers Day is the perfect day tocelebrate the joys of having a mother. It is the time to makeamendments for not being able to spend quality time with her. Thinkabout her likes and dislikes about gifts and idea of celebratingthe day. Strive to make Mothers Day totally hassle free for yourmother and take the responsibilities on yourself for a day.

Pamperher on this special day of hers just as she pampers you through outthe year. Give her a warm hug and a big kiss as you wish her aHappy Mothers Day!

Breakfast in Bed The most common way of celebrating Mother'sDay is to treat mothers with breakfast in bed. Children allow theirmothers to sleep till late in the morning while they juggle in thekitchen along with their father to prepare her favorite breakfast.A Mother's Day card and a bouquet of flowers also accompany themeticulously laid breakfast. Time for Family Reunion People staying away from theirfamilies make efforts to spend the day with their mother andgrandmothers in order to make them feel special. As a result,Mother's Day has turned out to be a family reunion day for many.Those who are unable to visit their mother, call their mother onphone and also send greeting cards to express their love andgratitude for the great lady.

If your parents areliving alone, you may plan a get together over lunch, dinner or teainviting all your siblings along with their families. This will bea pleasant surprise for your mother. You may also invite herfriends along with their families and host a big Mothers Day party.Ensure that you have your mother's favorite food as a part of themenu. Remember to play her favorite music.

Apologize to yourMother Children do not hesitate to put all theblame on their mother for their failures but she does not miss evena slightest opportunity to praise her children. It's tough toimagine how she bears a child's temper tantrums when he or she is ateenager. Most of the times, her teen-aged children do not realizehow hard they make her life by behaving so rude and difficult. Andyet she was so astonishingly cool. It it easy for the kids to be sodemanding from parents, specially mothers as they take heraffection and care so much for granted and sometimes it is to theextent of selfishness. Mothers Day is the right time to apologisefor all the troubles that you gave to your moms, without evenrealising at most times how troublesome you must have been toher.

2.Organize a Skit or aPlay Along with siblings, cousinsand friends, you can organise a skit or a play on Mothers Day. Itwill make your mom feel special to have a play hosted just forher. You may surprise her with your hidden talents as this willmake her feel proud to be your mother.

3. Organize an Interview It's great idea to organise a specialinterview with your mother on Mother's Day. Call it "Coffee withMom" or or think of any other name. In case have a camcorder, thenyou must record the event. This session will also help you knowmore about your mother. You can dig your mother about herchildhood, her friends, her teachers, her husband and her children.You may ask her how she met your father and her best moments in life.

This is a great way to make your mother feel important on herspecial day. Remember to express your love for her and to thank herfor all that she has done at the end of the interview. 4. PlayGames You can celebrate Mother's Day by playing indooror outdoor games with your mother. Planan outdoor game i f she is an active person and likes to play badminton, tennis or any other outdoor game. You may also play carom, chess, cards or any game that she is fond of and spend time with her. Youcan also play several online games with yourmother. 6. TeaParty You may organize tea parties inhonor of your mother on the occasion of Mother's Day. Pick up thebest crockery, decorate a tray by using a beautiful tray cover anda vase of fresh flowers.

Compliment the tea with her favorite snack and a delicious cake. 7. Craft Activities Mothers Day can also be celebratedby participating in craft activities together. Mothers can workalong with little children and have fun. Grown up children maysurprise their mothers with some craft work specially made fortheir mother.

Mother's DayFlowers: Carnations All over the world, peoplesend flowers for their mothers on this day. Carnation flowers have become symbolic ofmother's love and Mother's Day. Thetradition of gifting carnations to mothers on their special daybegan on the first official Mother's Day service that was held onMay 10, 1908. Miss AnnaJarvis sent 500 white carnations to theAndrews Methodist Episcopal Church, in Grafton, West Virginia andthe flowers were meant to be distributed amongst the mothers. As amatter of fact, white carnations were a favourite of Anna's mother,Mrs.

According to Anna, the white carnation is preferredas it may be thought to typify some of the virtues of motherhood aswhiteness stands for purity; its lasting qualities, faithfulness;its fragrance, and beauty. Miss Anna Jarvis continued with thistradition of sending carnations to the Andrews Church and hergesture gradually led to a custom of gifting carnations to mothers.Carnations are worn and gifted all over the world on Mother's Day. As a custom, red carnations are used to honor living mothers andwhite carnations are used to honor the deceased mothers.

FirstMother's Day A woman's first Mothers Day is the time fora new mother to celebrate first mother's day. On the special day ofa new mother, as the baby is too young to say thanks, the dayshould be celebrated by the child's father, close relatives andfriends. Fathers must realize that it is really tiresome for amother to handle the infant all the time. She should be given adays rest and fathers must take responsibility of looking after thechild at least for a day.

It would be a great idea to pamper themother with flowers and a gift. She would forget the drudgery ofchild rearing and at the same time feel proud of being amother.First Mothers Day is also the time when a woman realizes thetrue value of her own mother. The mothers words, "You will notunderstand the importance of all I do for you till you yourselfbecome a mother!" sound so meaningful. A new mother feels all themore grateful to her own mother for being socaring.