Here is a recap on types of treatment but this section will also look at deciding on which treatment to go for and if to treat at all. These are the treatments that are generally advised for each type of cancer. Followed by this list is some more information on each of the treatment types. This will allow you to get an idea of what will be involved in treatment, if sadly your dog develops cancer. Lymphoma - Chemotherapy Mast Cell Tumors - Chemotherapy, Surgery (+/- radiation) Fibrosarcomas - Surgical +/- chemotherapy, radiation Oral Cancers - Surgical, with reconstruction Mammary Tumors - Surgical (+/- chemotherapy follow-up) Osteosarcomas (bone) - Surgical + chemotherapy follow-up Hemangiosarcomas - Surgical + chemotherapy Skin Tumors - Surgical +/- chemotherapy, radiation Transitional Cell Carcinomas - Surgical + chemotherapy Undifferentiated SarcomasSurgical +/- chemotherapy, radiation Surgery Surgery can cure cancer by removing a tumor in its entirety from your dog's body. It's most successful where there is a solid tissue tumor that is localized (hasn't spread to other parts of the body) and which is small in size.

The aim of the surgery will be to remove the tumor entirely. Where this is not possible, because of the size or the there is a risk of damaging surrounding tissue, part of the tumor will be removed. Any part of the tumor left behind will be treated with another form of therapy such as radiation or chemotherapy.

Radiotherapy With radiotherapy, a radioactive beam is focused on the tumor in order to damage/kill the malignant cells. The process aims to stop the tumor growing, and can offer good remission times for many tumors; radiotherapy cannot cure cancer. Radiotherapy may be used in a number of situations: after surgery where cancer cells remain with the aim of preventing the tumor from growing in size; before surgery or chemotherapy to try and reduce the tumor size before treatment; and where a cure is not possible, as palliative therapy to reduce the symptoms of cancer for as long as possible. Radiotherapy is usually given as a series of treatments, rather than as one large dose because the radiation kills normal as well as cancerous cells.

Your dog will require anesthesia for each dose of radiation in order to keep him still during the treatment. Your dog may suffer radiation dermatitis as a side effect of radiotherapy. This is a reddening of the skin which may progress to a what looks like severe sunburn or a blistering rash on his skin. This will clear up, but it's important that your dog does not scratch the area as this could lead to it becoming infected.

Another side effect is hair loss; the hair will grow back but sometimes the color will be different to what it was originally. Chemotherapy Chemotherapy is the use of drugs to control tumor growth, and will be a suggested treatment where the cancer is in more than one part of your dog's body and is likely to spread, or has spread, through his body. The drugs administered are the same as those used for treating human cancer, but tend to show fewer side effects in dogs than humans. The reasons for this are that the drugs are administered in smaller doses and are used singularly or in fewer combinations than treatments for human cancer. There is also some evidence that they have less side effects when administered to dogs. Your dog's intestinal tract, bone marrow and hair follicles are particularly sensitive to chemotherapy treatment. As a result, common side effects are loss of appetite, nausea and diarrhea, decrease in immunity and loss of hair respectively.

Unlike humans, your dog's hair will usually grow back after chemotherapy treatment. Chemotherapy can be administered orally, by injection or by slow infusion. Treatment intervals vary from weekly to three weekly, and your dog will require blood tests between treatments to confirm the effectiveness of the treatment.

How long your dog needs to be treated will vary - it may be for the rest of his life, a for few weeks or months. In the majority of cases chemotherapy will not fully cure cancer, but it can slow down the progression of the disease which will lengthen and improve the quality of your dogs life. Hormonal Therapy Certain cancer, such as mammary cancer, can be treated via hormone therapy.

By preventing the cancer cells receiving the hormones they need to grow and multiply, the cancer can be controlled. Immunotherapy There is a belief that some cancers grow due to a defect in the body's immune system, and had the defect not been there, then the tumor's growth would have been suppressed. The immunotherapy treatment works by boosting the body's immune system to fight off the cancer.

Immunotherapy is an emerging treatment for cancer, and there is currently a great deal of research being undertaken into how it works and it's effectiveness in fighting the disease. When deciding on a treatment plan some of the things to consider are: do you have the time and financial commitment to see your dog through intensive treatment; what would be the prognosis for your dog with each type of treatment; what are the possible side effects of the treatment, and can you deal with them; what is an acceptable quality of life for your dog, and could the treatments proposed give him this. how much pain and discomfort is your dog currently suffering and will the proposed treatments improve this? These are tough questions to ask, and the answers may not be want you want to hear. Take the time to discuss all your concerns and questions with your vet as well as your dog's oncologist, friends and family, and support group. Low intervention and extending your dog's life by a number of weeks may be the best life you can offer your dog rather rounds of surgery, radiation and drug treatments in exchange for a few extra months of life.

Only you can make the decision, and whatever decision you do make, trust yourself that it is the right one for your dog.