ETYMOLOGY In 1507, German cartographer Martin Waldseem ller produced a world map on which he named the lands of the Western Hemisphere "America" after Italian explorer and cartographer Amerigo Vespucci. The former British colonies first used the country's modern name in the Declaration of Independence, which was the "unanimous Declaration of the thirteen united States of America" adopted by the "Representatives of the united States of America" on July 4, 1776. The current name was finalized on November 15, 1777, when the Second Continental Congress adopted the Articles of Confederation, the first of which states, "The Stile of this Confederacy shall be 'The United States of America.'"

The short form United States is also standard. Other common forms include the U.S., the USA, and America. Colloquial names include the U.S. of A. and the States. Columbia, a once popular name for the United States, was derived from Christopher Columbus. It appears in the name "District of Columbia". The standard way to refer to a citizen of the United States is as an American. Though United States is the formal adjective, American and U.S. are the most common adjectives used to refer to the country ("American values," "U.S. forces").

American is rarely used in English to refer to people not connected to the United States. The phrase "the United States" was originally treated as plural e.g., "the United States are" including in the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, ratified in 1865. It became common to treat it as singular e.g., "the United States is" after the end of the Civil War. The singular form is now standard; the plural form is retained in the idiom "these United States." Motto: In God We Trust (official) E Pluribus Unum (Latin; traditional) (Out of Many, One) Anthem: "The Star-Spangled Banner" Capital Washington, D.C. Largest city New York City Official languages None at federal level1 National language English (de facto)2 Demonym American Government Federal constitutional republic - President Barack Obama (D) - Vice President Joe Biden (D) - Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi (D) - Chief Justice John Roberts Independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain - Declared July 4, 1776 - Recognized September 3, 1783 - Current constitution June 21, 1788 Area - Total 9,826,630 km2 (3rd/4th3) 3,794,066 sq mi - Water (%) 6.76 Population - 2009 estimate 305,813,000 (3rd4) - 2000 census 281,421,906 - Density 31/km2 (180th) 80/sq mi GDP (PPP) 2008 estimate - Total $14.334 trillion (1st) - Per capita $47,025 (6th) GDP (nominal) 2008 estimate - Total $14.334 trillion (1st) - Per capita $47,025 (17th) Gini (2007) 46.3 HDI (2006) 0.950 (high) (15th) Currency United States dollar ($) (USD) Time zone (UTC-5 to -10) - Summer (DST) (UTC-4 to -10) Drives on the Right Internet TLD .us Calling code 1 1 English is the official language of at least 28 states some sources give a higher figure, based on differing definitions of "official." English and Hawaiian are both official languages in the state of Hawaii. 2 English is the de facto language of American government and the sole language spoken at home by 82% of Americans age five and older. Spanish is the second most commonly spoken language.

3 Whether the United States or the People's Republic of China is larger is disputed. The figure given is from the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency's World Factbook. Other sources give smaller figures. All authoritative calculations of the country's size include only the fifty states and the District of Columbia, not the territories. 4 The population estimate includes people whose usual residence is in the fifty states and the District of Columbia, including noncitizens.

It does not include either those living in the territories, amounting to more than 4 million U.S. citizens (most in Puerto Rico), or U.S. citizens living outside the United States. The United States of America (commonly referred to as the United States, the U.S., the USA, or America) is a federal constitutional republic comprising fifty states and a federal district. The country is situated mostly in central North America, where its forty-eight contiguous states and Washington, D.C., the capital district, lie between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, bordered by Canada to the north and Mexico to the south. The state of Alaska is in the northwest of the continent, with Canada to its east and Russia to the west across the Bering Strait. The state of Hawaii is an archipelago in the mid-Pacific. The country also possesses several territories, or insular areas, scattered around the Caribbean and Pacific. At 3.79 million square miles (9.83 million km ) and with about 305 million people, the United States is the third or fourth largest country by total area, and third largest by land area and by population. The United States is one of the world's most ethnically diverse and multicultural nations, the product of large-scale immigration from many countries.The

U.S. economy is the largest national economy in the world, with an estimated 2008 gross domestic product (GDP) of US$14.3 trillion (23% of the world total based on nominal GDP and almost 21% at purchasing power parity). The nation was founded by thirteen colonies of Great Britain located along the Atlantic seaboard. On July 4, 1776, they issued the Declaration of Independence, which proclaimed their independence from Great Britain and their formation of a cooperative union. The rebellious states defeated Great Britain in the American Revolutionary War, the first successful colonial war of independence.A federal convention adopted the current United States Constitution on September 17, 1787; its ratification the following year made the states part of a single republic with a strong central government.

The Bill of Rights, comprising ten constitutional amendments guaranteeing many fundamental civil rights and freedoms, was ratified in 1791. In the 19th century, the United States acquired land from France, Spain, the United Kingdom, Mexico, and Russia, and annexed the Republic of Texas and the Republic of Hawaii. Disputes between the agrarian South and industrial North over states' rights and the expansion of the institution of slavery provoked the American Civil War of the 1860s. The North's victory prevented a permanent split of the country and led to the end of legal slavery in the United States. By the 1870s, the national economy was the world's largest. The Spanish American War and World War I confirmed the country's status as a military power.

In 1945, the United States emerged from World War II as the first country with nuclear weapons, a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, and a founding member of NATO. The end of the Cold War left the United States as the sole superpower. The country accounts for approximately 50% of global military spending and is a leading economic, political, and cultural force in the world. The United States is a multicultural nation, home to a wide variety of ethnic groups, traditions, and values.

There is no "American" ethnicity; aside from the now small Native American and Native Hawaiian populations, nearly all Americans or their ancestors immigrated within the past five centuries.The culture held in common by most Americans is referred to as mainstream American culture, a Western culture largely derived from the traditions of Western European migrants, beginning with the early English and Dutch settlers. German, Irish, and Scottish cultures have also been very influential.Certain cultural attributes of Mand and Wolof slaves from West Africa were adopted by the American mainstream; based more on the traditions of Central African Bantu slaves, a distinct African American culture developed that would also deeply affect the mainstream.Westward expansion integrated the Creoles and Cajuns of Louisiana and the Hispanos of the Southwest and brought close contact with the culture of Mexico. Large-scale immigration in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries from Southern and Eastern Europe introduced many new cultural elements. More recent immigration from Asia and especially Latin America has had broad impact.

The resulting cultural mix may be described as a homogeneous melting pot, or as a pluralistic salad bowl in which immigrants and their descendants retain distinctive cultural characteristics. Women now mostly work outside the home and receive a majority of bachelor's degrees. In 2005, 28% of households were married childless couples, the most common arrangement.Same-sex marriage is contentious several states permit civil unions in lieu of marriage.

Between 2003 and 2008, the supreme courts of Massachusetts, California, and Connecticut ruled those states' bans on same-sex marriage unconstitutional. The California ruling was superseded by a state constitutional amendment, approved by voters in November 2008, that defines marriage as between a man and woman; the legality of the amendment is currently being contested in court. Between 2004 and 2008, voters in 13 other states approved similar constitutional bans on same-sex marriage.