There are many different varieties of rice. They differ in amounts of nutrition and, more importantly, the type of starch. There are two types of starch in rice: amylose and amylopectin. Amylose is a long, straight starch molecule that does not gelatinize during cooking (think of making gelatin), so rice which contains more of this starch tends to cook fluffy, with separate grains. Long grain white rice has the most amylose and the least amylopectin, so it tends to be the fluffiest and least sticky. Amylose also hardens more when cool, joining tightly together and forming crystals that melt when the rice is reheated. Rice that is high in amylose has a lower Glycemic Index number. Amylopectin is a highly branched molecule that makes the rice sticky when it's released from the grain during cooking. Medium grain rice has more amylopectin, making it a good candidate for risottos, salads and rice pudding, which are served cold. And short grain rice has even more amylopectin and little to no amylose, so it's used most often for Asian cooking, when you want grains to be sticky so they are easier to eat with chopsticks. Then there's glutinous rice, which is very sticky when cooked, with the highest amount of amylopectin and no amylose. White rice has the hull and bran removed, diminishing its nutritional content. But in the U.S., rice is generally enriched, with nutrients like calcium, riboflavin, iron, and niacin added. Brown rice has just the hull removed, so it has more fiber and nutrition. Converted rice is boiled or steamed before it is processed, which forces some vitamins and minerals into the kernel from the bran. Converted rice is higher in nutrients than plain white rice. And wild rice is not a grain, but a seed of a grass native to North America. When rice cooks, the heat and liquid start permeating the surface of the rice. The starch molecules inside the rice grains start breaking down and absorb water to form a gel. The type of starch in the rice determines whether it will be fluffy or sticky. When selecting rice, it is important to understand the classifications of rice in order to purchase the type or variety of rice that best suited for a particular recipe. Rice is classified according to many different characteristics and all varieties of rice can be categorized using any of the methods of classification. Some of the short-grain rice varieties described below are actually considered medium-grain in the United States according to the length-width ratio used for classifying rice grains. However, some of the varieties are included here because they are universally referred to as short-grain rice in famous recipes (risotto and paella, for example) by cooks and food experts in all parts of the world, including the United States. Arborio rice, which is named after a town in northwest Italy, is one of the most popular rice varieties used for risotto, a creamy Italian rice dish. (The rice is sauteed in butter and onions and is then cooked in stock, which is added to the rice in small portions to allow the rice to absorb the liquid gradually. The rice is stirred constantly, releasing the starch in the rice, which acts as a thickener and results in a very creamy dish that is finished with the addition of grated hard cheese and butter.) Bamboo rice is an aromatic short-grain white rice from China, which has been infused with the chlorophyll taken from young bamboo plants. As the rice is milled, the chlorophyll is added, making the rice high in vitamin B. Bamboo rice can be served as a risotto, as a sushi rice, as a side dish with fish or pork, or as an ingredient in rice desserts. A short-grain variety of rice, grown in the Himalayan Mountains, which has a brown and ivory colored kernel. When cooked, the rice has a nutty flavor that may overpower less flavorful ingredients. It is available in Asian markets, specialty shops, and through mail order suppliers. Bomba rice is a Spanish short-grain rice that when cooked, expands in width, which differs from most rice varieties that expand in length. It is able to absorb three times its volume in liquid so it is one of the best rice varieties for the preparation of popular Spanish paella recipes. When cooked, the grains remain separate and do not stick together. Bomba rice is expensive compared to other rice varieties due to the care required in cultivation and the length of time required for it to mature. A short-grained Italian rice that features small plump grains, a high starch content, and a creamy texture when cooked. It is much like Arborio rice and both can be used in many of the same types of dishes. Because it retains its shape as it absorbs liquid during cooking, it is well suited for preparing the Italian rice dish, risotto. Roma rice is another short-grain Italian rice that is excellent for the preparation of risotto. The rice has the ability to absorb a large volume of liquid and the grains remain separate and distinct. Roma rice is also used for creamy desserts, such as a variety of rice puddings. The grains of Japanese sushi rice varieties are sticky when cooked making them easy to form into a shape for popular Japanese sushi dishes. There are several varieties of sushi rice and most are available in Asian markets and well-stocked food stores and some can be ordered through mail order suppliers. A short-grain variety of rice that sticks together when it is cooked. There are numerous varieties used for home cooking and commercially for product formulations, converting the rice starch and flour into food binders for fillings, gravies, and sauces. The starch and flour do not separate in foods when they are frozen or thawed, making them an excellent option for frozen food formulations. When used for home cooking, sweet rice can be served with sushi or as dessert rice. Sweet rice is also referred to as botan, Chinese sweet, glutinous, Japanese, mochi, pearl, sticky, or waxy rice. A brand name for a spicy, aromatic rice blend that was developed in the United States. It is a combination of an Asian black short-grain rice and a medium-grain mahogany rice that were grown together in the same field. Black Japonicawas developed by the Lundberg Family Farms of California. A medium-grain variety of rice from China that has a covering of black bran. When cooked, the rice has a distinctive nutty flavor, a slightly chewy texture, and the color becomes dark purple. Chinese black rice is also known as Emperor's rice and Forbidden rice because at one time it was the exclusive rice of the Chinese emperors. A medium-grain variety of rice from Italy that is characterized by its black, charcoal, and rust colored grains. When cooked, the rice has a distinctive nutty flavor, a slightly chewy texture. It makes an excellent side dish when dressed with oil or butter, seasoned with salt and pepper, and topped with grated hard cheese. It is available through mail order or can be found in well-stocked food stores and Italian markets. A medium-grain variety of rice that is cultivated in Indonesia. The rice is sold with only flecks of red bran covering the kernel so that some of the white kernel shows through. Indonesian red rice is one of many varieties of medium-grain red rice grown throughout the world. A medium-grain variety of rice that is cultivated in Thailand. The rice is sold with much of the red bran covering the kernel so that only a hint of the white kernel is revealed. Thai red rice is one of many varieties of medium-grain red rice grown throughout the world. A medium-grain rice variety that is cultivated in many areas of Spain, but takes its name from the province and city of Valencia, which is the largest rice growing region of Spain. It is slightly sticky when cooked and yet the grains separate easily, which makes it perfect for the popular Spanish paella dishes that originated in Valencia. A long-grain rice that is approximately four times longer than it is wide. Basmati is one of the most popular long-grain rice varieties due to its fragrance, flavor, and texture. Much of the basmati rice is cultivated in India and Pakistan. The rice is fluffy and dry and the grains do not stick together after it is cooked. Steaming, boiling, and baking are excellent preparation methods for basmati rice, which can be used in pilafs, salads, and a variety of cooked dishes. Basmati rice combines well with sauces and curries. A brand name for a long-grain rice that is approximately four times longer than it is wide. It is one of the most popular varieties in the United States and was first planted in the Carolinas during the 17th Century. It is now cultivated mostly in Arkansas, Texas, and California. Carolina rice is fluffy and dry when cooked and the grains do not stick together. Steaming and baking are excellent preparation methods for Carolina rice, which can be used in pilafs, salads, and a variety of cooked dishes. Carolina rice is also known as patna rice and it is available in many large food stores. A long-grain variety of rice with red bran that is cultivated in Nepal. Himalayan red rice has a rich, nutty flavor and a deep red color when cooked. It is one of many types of long-grain red rice grown throughout the world. Himalayan red rice has a firm texture that makes it a good choice for salads and various pilaf recipes. A variety of long-grain rice cultivated in Thailand. It is very fragrant and when cooked it is slightly sticky, but flavorful. It is often used for traditional Southeast Asian dishes and is also known as Thai fragrant rice, a name that applies to the jasmine fragrance provided when the rice cooks. It is available in both white and brown varieties. A long-grain variety of aromatic rice developed in the U.S. that is considered to be similar to Basmati in taste and texture. It is served in Indian and Middle Eastern food dishes. Kasmati rice is available in well-stocked food stores, specialty shops, and through mail order suppliers. A hybrid of basmati rice, pecan rice is ans aromatic variety cultivated primarily in the southern United States. It is available in white or brown varieties and when cooked, has a rich, nutty flavor with an aroma similar to popcorn. Pecan rice is available in well-stocked food stores, specialty shops, and through mail order suppliers. A variety of Della rice, which is a cross between basmati and other long-grain rice varieties grown primarily in the southern United States. When cooked it expands widthwise, but maintains the same length. It is not as aromatic as basmati rice, but is more flavorful and aromatic than other long-grain rice from the U.S. It is a fluffy dry rice that does not stick together after it is cooked. Steaming and baking are excellent preparation methods for Texmati rice, which can be used in pilafs, salads, and a variety of cooked dishes. A long-grain rice from Thailand that is actually a form of sticky rice, but because the black bran layers are not removed from the rice during processing, the rice does not stick together when cooked. Thai black rice has a sweet nutty flavor and like some other varieties of black rice, it develops a purple color when cooked. In Thailand, it is usually not eaten as part of the main meal, but is instead sweetened with sugar and coconut milk and used as a dessert or snack. It is very filling, so it is usually eaten in small quantities. A brand name for a domestic aromatic long-grain rice that is generally sold as an unpolished or brown variety. When cooked, the rice opens and splits, similar to wild rice. The flavor is slightly sweet and nutty with a popcorn-like aroma. Wehanirice was developed by the Lundberg Family Farms of California. Although wild rice is not technically a type of rice, it is used as one. True lake rice is manually harvested, making it quite expensive. Wild rice grains harvested from the lakes of Minnesota are of varying lengths and colors and usually vary from one body of water to another. The grains of Canadian wild rice tend to be longer and are often referred to as jumbo Canadian wild rice. Cultivated wild rice (the type most commonly found in food stores) is less expensive, but it is grown in controlled paddies. 