Thursday, April 17 is national poem in Your Pocket Day,which asks people to carry a poem in their pocket and read it aloud to friends and co-workers. This is the first year that Poem in Your Pocket Day will be a national event. It originated in New York and has spread widely from there. Petaluma poet Beatriz Lagos is responsible for organizing the local Poem in Your Pocket day. Lagos, an award-winning poet and educator, is passionate about poetry. " All of us are living in anxiety in this moment in time. Poetry gives us refuge. It's nice that people take the time to write and read poetry" said Lagos. A number of Sonoma County poets have already signed on to help Lagos on Poem in Your Pocket Day by reading poems at local coffee shops, stores, and restaurants. Lagos has been constant in her determination to spread the word about the event. She describes this event paradoxically as serious, but casual. A lot of educators have also signed up to participate in events with their students. Geri Digiorno, Sonoma County's former poet laureate and organizer of the annual Petaluma Poetry Walk, will be participating in Poem in Your Pocket Day. She believes the event will be well received by Petalumans. "It seems like a really good idea to me. Poetry can change the world. One poem can save the world. It can save one person" she said. "Poetry is strong and straight. It can really reach people." Born in Argentina, Lagos was surrounded by poetry at a very young age because her father was a poet. "I grew up with poetry. I was an artist of expressing the poetry of others" she said. In 1976, widowed with two children, she left Argentina and moved to the United States. I came for freedom. I came to escape the military dictatorship and create a better life for my daughters,she said. Beginning in the 1980s, Lagos was asked to speak at the World Congress of Poets about metaphors, images and the creative process of poetry. She traveled to Greece, Spain and Italy and spoke with world-renowned poets, a life changing and moving experience. In the late 1980s, Lagos lived out a lifelong dream and moved to Spain. This move lasted a lot longer than expected as she planned to live there for only two years but in fact stayed for nine years. Living in Hita, Spain, she continued to write poetry and novels. She also founded the House of Poets, a place for poets to stay and visit when in Hita. Lagos is fluent in both Spanish and English, because of this she writes her poems in each language specifically. She doesn't like to translate her poems at all as translating them leads to problems with language. By writing them in both languages separately she avoids any problems and can create poetry that is beautiful whatever the language they are written in. In 1996, Lagos returned to Petaluma. She has been nominated twice to be a Sonoma County poet laureate. With degrees from Sonoma State University and the University of California, Berkeley, Lagos has taught Spanish and writing to all ages of students, from kindergartners to the university level. She created a program used to teach Spanish to young children that is still used in the U.S. and Japan. As an accomplished poet, writer and educator, Lagos has accomplished more in her lifetime than many ever will. She is an inspiration to both friends and fellow poets. Lagos strongly encourages everyone to participate in Poem in Your Pocket Day. It is a break in daily life, a moment of meditation or a funny moment if the poem is comical. In a statement, the executive director of the academy, Tree Swenson, called poems and pockets "a magnetic combination." "Think of Frank O'Hara writing poems during his lunch hour," she said. "In 'A Step Away from Them,' he ended with these lines: 'my heart is in my pocket, it is Poems by Pierre Reverdy.' Selecting a poem for your pocket can be a vital thing to do." Several city officials gathered at Bryant Park today for the ceremony led by the writer Elizabeth Swados which began the afternoon of poetry. To mark the occasion - which is intended to encourage literacy in the schools - each person participating in the ceremony agreed, as directed, to carry a poem around with them today. Several of the participants stepped up to the microphone in Bryant Park to read those poems. Kate D. Levin, the commissioner of the Department of Cultural Affairs, who holds a Ph.D. in English literature, read "Young Poets," by the Chilean poet Nicanor Parra (as translated by Miller Williams). Adrian Benepe, commissioner of the Department of Parks and Recreation, read My Climbing Tree, a poem by Armani Nurse, a student at Public School 35 in the Bronx. Marcia V. Lyles, deputy chancellor for teaching and learning, "free-versed her own poetry." Daniel Biederman, co-founder of the Bryant Park Corporation, read Robert Frost's poem "Once by the Pacific," as published in "Poems of the American West," edited by Robert Mezey and published by Everyman's Library in 2002: The s hattered water made a misty din. Great waves looked over others coming in, And thought of doing something to the shore That water never did to land before. The clouds were low and hairy in the skies, Like locks blown forward in the gleam of eyes. You could not tell, and yet it looked as if The shore was lucky in being backed by cliff, The cliff in being backed by continent; It looked as if a night of dark intent Was coming, and not only a night, an age. Someone had better be prepared for rage. There would be more than ocean-water broken Before God's last 'Put out the Light' was spoken. Kate deRosset, director of policy and external affairs at the Department of Cultural Affairs, was asked whether she had remembered to carry a poem with her. "Im carrying a book of poems by Elizabeth Bishop in my pocketbook," she replied, without missing a beat. "My favorites by her are 'The Shampoo,' 'Invitation to Miss Marianne Moore' and 'Breakfast Song.'" (The last of those poems was not published; it was discovered by Alice Quinn, poetry editor at The New Yorker, in what has become a much-debated episode among literary scholars.) Her response shows the huge support for this event and that people really are getting involved at every level of society. Engaging people with poetry is really important and these events seems to be succeeding in doing just that. The History of Events During Poetry Month 2008 Poem In Your Pocket Day: On April 17, poems traveled in pockets across the nation, carried and unfolded in bookstores, schools, workplaces, even in Grand Central Terminal in New York City. There, the Academy of American Poets staff handed out city-themed poems by Edna St. Vincent Millay, Claude McKay, Emma Lazarus, and more to morning commuters. The celebration, started in 2002 by the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs, spread coast to coast with Poem In Your Pocket Day festivities held for the first time at the Library of Congress and many more places. View more highlights from the first annual celebration 2007 Poetfan Contest: For that year's celebration, the Academy launched a national contest seeking "poetry's biggest fans"-people who demonstrate a passion for poetry that goes beyond the usual. After receiving hundreds of entries from poetry readers from all walks of life, the Academy chose six "poetfans" from across the country-including a chemist, an art professor and his class, and an independent bookseller-to lead National Poetry Month and have their innovative ways of engaging with poetry profiled on Poets.org. 2006 Poetry Read-a-Thon: The Academy continued the celebration of National Poetry Month's 10th anniversary by launching a Poetry Read-a-Thon for students. Four thousand classrooms registered and seventy-five thousand students logged, recited and responded to poems for the project. Together with the American Poetry & Literacy Project, the Academy published a poetry anthology, How To Eat A Poem, with a foreword by U.S. Poet Laureate Ted Kooser. 30,000 copies of the anthology were distributed for free across the nation. In addition, the Academy introduced the Life Lines project, collecting the most memorable lines of American poetry from poets and poetry lovers alike. 2005 10th Anniversary of National Poetry Month: To mark this milestone, the Academy planned the largest NPM to date. Special projects included the 10 Years/10 Cities Reading Series, the debut of the new Poets.org, and the relaunch of the Poetry Book Club. To cap it all off, the Empire State Building honored the Academy with a special lighting on April 5 to mark the 10th anniversary of National Poetry Month. 2004 National Poetry Almanac: This special project extended the celebration of poetry from April to all year round. The Almanac provided 365 days' worth of poetry highlights, activities, ideas, and history for individual exploration and classroom use. From debates and manifestoes to forms and techniques, from great poetry anthologies to poetry landmarks across the country, the National Poetry Almanac provided a daily dose of poetry, all year long. 2003 National Poetry Map: Focusing on "poetry in your community,the Academy debuted a National Poetry Map of America, with state-by-state listings of poets, poetry journals, presses, organizations, conferences, bookstores, events, and writing programs, and much more. In addition, the Academy partnered with the American Poetry & Literacy Project to promote and distribute free copies of Across State Lines: America's 50 States as Represented in Poetry. 2002 Langston Hughes Centenary Exhibit: This year's celebration centered on the 100th anniversary of the birth of Langston Hughes. In honor of this milestone, and to celebrate a brilliant artist's contribution to American poetry, Hughes was featured on the 2002 NPM poster, and we created a special Langston Hughes Centenary Exhibit. We also teamed up with Langston Hughes Poetry Day to sponsor the largest poetry reading group in the world on April 2 at the University of Kansas. 2001 American Poet Stamp Project: The Academy invited the public to visit Poets.org and otefor the poets they would most like to see on a postage stamp. In all, more than 10,000 people cast their ballots, nominating a total of 205 poets for future stamps. Langston Hughes was by far the most popular poet, collecting over 2,500 votes. In June, the Academy sent our completed petition to the United States Postal Service, which issued a Langston Hughes stamp in January 2002. 1998 Great APLseed Giveaway: In 1998, the Academy teamed up with the American Poetry & Literacy (APL) Project to distribute 100,000 free books of poetry from New York to California during April. On April 22, the President and First Lady hosted a Millennium Evening at the White House featuring Poets Laureate Robert Pinsky, Robert Hass, and Rita Dove. 