Twentieth century and World's Fairs The continued construction of bridges over the Flushing River and the development of other roads increased the volume of vehicular traffic into Flushing. In 1909, the construction of the Queensborough Bridge over the East River connected Queens County to midtown Manhattan. The introduction of rail road service to Manhattan in 1910 by the Long Island Rail Road Port Washington Branch and in 1928 by the New York City Transit Authority's Number 7 subway line hastened the continued transformation of Flushing to a commuter suburb and commercial center. Due to increased traffic, a main roadway through Flushing named Broadway was widened and renamed Northern Boulevard. Flushing was a forerunner of Hollywood, when the young American film industry was still based on the East Coast and Chicago. Decades later, the RKO Keith's movie palace would host vaudeville acts and appearances by the likes of Mickey Rooney, The Marx Brothers and Bob Hope. The theater now lies vacant and in disrepair due to an unauthorized real estate development project that took place in the early 1990s. The 1939-1940 World's Fair was held in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park.

Massive preparations for the Fair began in 1936 and included the elimination of the Corona dumps. Among the innovations presented to the world in 1939 was the television, which broadcast a speech by Franklin D. Roosevelt. After the World's Fair, the New York City pavilion was converted into the temporary headquarters of the United Nations where, in 1947, the UN voted in favor of the establishment of the State of Israel. A second World's Fair, the 1964-1965 World's Fair was also held at the site of the Flushing Meadows-Corona Park. Pope Paul VI attended the Fair on October 4, 1965.

On this papal trip, Pope Paul VI became the first pope to visit the United States. An exedra now commemorates the site of the Vatican pavilion. Michelangelo's masterpiece, the Piet , was exhibited during his trip. Following the Fair, the Unisphere, the New York State Pavilion and the New York City Pavilion remained in the park. The NYC Pavilion was converted into an ice-skating rink and later, the ice rink became the Queens Museum of Art. High schools The five public high schools in Flushing include Francis Lewis High School, John Bowne High School, Robert F. Kennedy Community High School, Townsend Harris High School, the Flushing International High School and Flushing High School, the oldest public high school in the City of New York.

Flushing High School is housed in a distinctive Gothic Revival building built between 1912 and 1915 and declared a NYC Landmark in 1991. Private high schools include Holy Cross High School. Townsend Harris High School is a selective high school located on the Queens College campus and was recently ranked by the U.S. News and World Report as one of the best public high schools in the United States. Higher Education Queens College, founded in 1937, a senior college of the City University of New York (CUNY) is located between Kissena Boulevard and the Long Island Expressway.

The City University of New York School of Law was founded in 1983 adjacent to the Queens College campus. The Law School operates Main Street Legal Services Corp., a legal services clinic. Flushing is a very religiously diverse community in America (if not the most). There are "over 200 places of worship in a small urban neighborhood about 2.5 square miles [6.5 square kilometers].""Flushing has become a model for religious pluralism in America, says R. Scott Hanson, a visiting assistant professor of history at the State University of New York at Binghamton and an affiliate of the Pluralism Project at Harvard University."

In 1657, while Flushing was still a Dutch settlement, a document known as the Flushing Remonstrance was created by Edward Hart, the town clerk, where some thirty ordinary citizens protested a ban imposed by Peter Stuyvesant, the director general of New Amsterdam, forbidding the harboring of Quakers. The Flushing Remonstrance cited the Flushing Town charter of 1645 which promised liberty of conscience. Today, Flushing abounds in houses of worship, ranging from the Dutch colonial epoch Quaker Meeting House, St. George's Episcopal Church, the Free Synagogue of Flushing, St. Andrew Avellino Roman Catholic Church, St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church - the largest Greek Orthodox Church in the United States. The first series of Charmin toilet paper commercials featuring Mr. Whipple (Dick Wilson) were filmed in Flushing at the Trade Rite supermarket on Bowne Street. The rock band KISS first played at the Coventry Club on Queens Boulevard in 1973, and is said to have derived its name from "Kissena," one of Flushing's major boulevards. Joel Fleischman, the fictional character from the 1990s comedic drama Northern Exposure, was said to have relocated from Flushing. Often, references were made to actual locations around Main Street, Flushing. Fran Drescher's character "Fran Fine" on the TV show "The Nanny", was said to have been raised in Flushing, where her family still lived.

Drescher herself was born in Flushing. Flushing was the location of the Stark Industries (later Stark International) munitions plant in Marvel Comics' original Iron Man series. Ethnic culture The intersection of Main Street and Roosevelt Avenue, the business center for Flushing located at the terminus of the Number 7 subway line on the westernmost edge of the neighborhood has a concentration of Chinese and Korean small businesses among others.

Today, this area is also known for its selection of authentic Chinese, Korean and Asian restaurants. Other areas of Flushing continue to maintain a large Italian and Greek presence reflected in the many Italian and Greek bakeries, grocery stores and restaurants in the northern and eastern sections of the neighborhood. An area south of Franklin Avenue is home to an Indian, Pakistani and Bangladeshi market.

Flushing Avenue is a station on the BMT Jamaica Line of the New York City Subway. Located at the intersection of Flushing Avenue and Broadway in Brooklyn, it is served by the J train at all times except rush hours and middays in the peak direction, and the M train at all times except weekends and late nights. The Z train, when it operates, bypasses the station. The north exit leads to Flushing Avenue while the south exit is an emergency exit and leads to Park Avenue. This station was made ADA accessible in late 2003 due to its proximity to Woodhull Hospital. The elevators are cantilevered over the sides of the structure. At the north end, the platform walls are vertical windscreen on the northbound and southbound sides.

The 2006 artwork here is called Migration by Robin Holder.

Major highways that serve the area include the Van Wyck Expressway, Whitestone Expressway, Grand Central Parkway and Long Island Expressway. Northern Boulevard extends from the Queensboro Bridge in Long Island City through Flushing into Nassau County.

The Flushing Remonstrance was a 1657 Colonial American petition to Peter Stuyvesant, the Governor of the Dutch colony of New Netherland, in which several citizens (none of them Quakers themselves) requested an exemption to his ban on Quaker worship. It is considered a precursor to the United States Constitution's provision on freedom of religion in the Bill of Rights. Flushing, now in Queens, New York, was then part of the Dutch colony of New Netherland. Stuyvesant had formally banned the practice of all religions outside of the Dutch Reformed Church, the established church of the Netherlands, in the colony. In 1656 William Wickenden, a Baptist minister from Rhode Island was arrested by Dutch colonial authorities, jailed, fined, and exiled for baptizing Christians in Flushing.

Many other similar incidents took place prior to the Remonstrance The Flushing Remonstrace was signed on December 27, 1657 by a group of English citizens who were affronted by persecution of Quakers and the religious policies of Stuyvesant. Four who signed were arrested by order of Stuyvesant. Two immediately recanted, but the writer of the remonstrance, Edward Hart, and sheriff of Flushing Tobias Feake remained firm in their convictions. Both men were remanded to prison where they survived in isolation on rations of bread and water for over a month. After friends and family petitioned Stuyvesant on behalf of the elderly Hart, the clerk was released on penalty of banishment.

Feake held out for a few more weeks, but eventually recanted and was pardoned after being fined and banned from holding public office. The town government of Flushing was removed and Dutch replacements were appointed by Stuyvesant. Subsequently, John Bowne of the colony allowed Quakers to meet in his house. He was arrested in 1662 and brought before Stuyvesant. Unrepentant, Bowne was sentenced to banishment to Holland, though he was of English descent and spoke no Dutch. After several months in the foreign land, Bowne petitioned the directors of the Dutch West India Company. After a month of deliberation, the WIC agreed to support Bowne, and advised Stuyvesant by a letter (1663) that he was to end religious persecution in the colony.

One year later, in 1664, the colony fell to British control. The earliest copy of the document dates also from 1657 as an official copy of the original, but the original has been lost. The Queens Borough President's Office held a celebration of the 350th anniversary of the Remonstrance in 2007. Descendants of the signers, Bowne, Stuyvesant, and the arresting officer were invited and in attendance, and the original copy of the Remonstrance was brought down from the State Archives in Albany for display.