However, similaritiesbetween The Secret Garden and Wuthering Heights, written severalyears earlier have been noted. Both Wuthering Heights and The Secret Garden takeplace in Yorkshire. While Bronte portrays that shire as a vast,mysterious, nearly mystical place, Burnett gives her own concept ofthe shires mystical aspects in brief descriptions related to MaryLennox by Mrs. Medlock and Martha and Dickon Sowerby. Both novelsincorporate elements of the supernatural, where the voice of thelost love (Catherine Earnshaw and Lilias Craven) of the adult maleprotagonist (Heathcliff and Archibald Craven) speaks to theliving. For Burnett in The Secret Garden, the moors are aplace described but never experienced first-hand. Her centralcharacter, Mary Lennox, crosses the moors at night and never duringthe course of the story ventures out upon them again. The chiefreason for this may be that unlike Emily Bronte, Burnett had only alimited working knowledge of the Yorkshire moors. Instead, shecreates a safer environment for her child readers, surrounded bybut separate from the wilderness of the unknown moors. This was anenvironment with which she, herself, was familiar, an enclosedgarden, wild and overgrown but an oasis contained in a way that themoors are not. Significantly, Mary Lennox has the momentaryillusion of sailing on the sea as she drives across the moors inthe dark. This image of the moors as a vast, unpredictable oceanreinforces the subsequent image of the garden as an island ofrefuge not only from the unpredictability of the outside naturalworld but from the unpredictability of adult human emotions whichin both books are mirrored in natural events. Although she differedfrom Bronte by refashioning herexterior setting, Burnett kept untouched the mouldy mystery of hernovel interiors, a gloomy old house haunted by the passions of thepast. Yet Burnetts great, gloomy pile of Misselthwaite Manor seemsto owe more to Charlotte Brone tand Jane Eyre's Thornfield Hallthan to either the ancient farmhouse of Wuthering Heights or themore affluent manor of Thrushcross Grange. Certainly the plotdevice common to both books, that of the young female strangerhearing wild human sounds behind locked doors and thick walls inforbidden parts of the house, seem closely related. But if Burnettappears to have borrowed from Charlotte Bronte the pattern for theancient house in which she set her story, it was Emily Bronte'swork which appears to have had the greater influence on Burnettcharacters and principal points of her story. For The Secret Garden, Burnett created a cast ofcharacters, each of which appears influenced by one or more of thecharacters in Wuthering Heights. Both books begin with the arrivalof a child into, what is for them, the alien environment ofYorkshire. There are similarities as well as differences betweenthese two children Mary Lennox and Heathcliff. Like Heathcliff,Mary is a mody orphan. She was, according to Burnett, t he mostdisagreeable-looking child ever seen . . . [with] a sour expression. . . [and] as tyrannical and selfish a little pig as ever lived.Burnett makes the orphaned Mary at nine years old roughly the sameage as the orphaned Heathcliff when he first arrives at WutheringHeights. She comes to Yorkshire as an outsider ,an English childraised in India, home of the gypsies, as foreign to Yorkshire as isthe gypsy boy Heathcliff. Both speak words the locals cannotunderstand. Heathcliff, Romany and Mary, Hindilthough Mary has theadvantage of speaking English as well. Just as it is the appearanceon the scene of the self-willed Heathcliff with his ungovernablepassions which initiates the action in Wuthering Heights, so it isthe appearance of the self-willed Mary Lennox and her equallyuncontrolled nature which precipitates the action in The SecretGarden. Yet the two authors take their protagonists in differentdirections. Heathcliff grows from a surly, violent boy into asurly, violent man. Mary, like the garden which comes to obsessher, metamorphoses into a civilized, sympathetic human being with aconcern for the opinions and welfare of others. She sheds heroriginal selfish egocentrism as the garden sheds its weeds beneathher hand. Unlike Heathcliff, who mirrors the destructive aspects ofnature, Mary, within the context of the garden, comes to embody theconstructive aspects which nurture life. Mary uncle, Archibald Craven, tall, dark, morose andbrooding, is prey to the same passions as the adult Heathcliff.Although shorn of Heathcliff deliberate malice, Craven is stillpossessed of a soul-destroying obsession centered on his lost wife.This obsession brings destruction and despair to himself and tothose around him. Burnett describes Craven as a man who oisoned theair about him with gloom. Most strangers thought he must be eitherhalf mad or a man with some hidden crime on his soul. He certainlyseems Heathcliff soulmate. Craven lost beloved and permanentfixation is his beautiful deceased wife, Lilias. Gravely hurt whena tree branch breaks under her, she, like Heathcliff Cathy,subsequently dies in childbirth. Craven blames the loss of his wifeboth on the garden where the accident occurred and, again likeHeathcliff, on the child whose premature birth hastened heruntimely death. Craven takes his revenge by locking up the garden,confining the boy at Misselthwaite and then abandoning both.Heathcliff revenge includes the confinement of his own son, Linton,and of Cathy daughter, Catherine Linton, at Wuthering Heights. Mary Lennox is for Burnett both the chiefprotagonist in The Secret Garden and the catalyst which begins theaction. In the early chapters, as a catalyst, she stands inrelationship to her own story where Heathcliff stands inrelationship to his. Yet there are marked differences between them.Heathcliff is introduced into an apparently happy family which heis instrumental in breaking apart. Mary is introduced into anunhappy family which she is instrumental in bringing together. Herrole as the story progresses seems increasingly to emulate the roleplayed by the young Catherine Linton in Wuthering Heights. This isnot as contradictory as it might appear given the dramaticalteration in Mary character within the context of the action. Thesame stubborn streak of sullen rebellion which pits the will ofHeathcliff against that of Catherine Linton in the second half ofWuthering Heights is reflected in the sullen streak of stubbornnessthat is part of the character of Mary Lennox. Yet Mary later learnsto use this stubbornness to good purpose in her dealings with hercousin Colin, just as Catherine stubborn animosity towardHeathcliff leads her to initiate a relationship with her cousinHareton which proves to be the salvation of them both. Othersimilarities exist between Mary and Catherine. Both are stronglyattracted to ature boys,rough illiterates at home on the moors.Both boys are shown to be superior in character to the two malecousins of the girlsown class. Dickon, the boy from the moors, whoplays a pipe like Pan and charms animals, fits the structure of TheSecret Garden like a minor woodland god. He seems to be Burnettversion of Hareton Earnshaw, the cousin who marries CatherineLinton after Heathcliff death. Hareton like Dickon is a man of thesoil and is good with animals. Dickon character in The SecretGarden is the one most in touch with the Divine, and seems to takeits cues from Bront Hareton, whose own deep-rootedness in theYorkshire moors is the natural balm that, despite circumstance,keeps him whole. The third characters in these younger generationaltriads within the two stories are Linton Heathcliff and ColinCraven. They appear to grow from the same rootstock created byBronte but in The Secret Garden, Colin life moves toward adifferent resolution. Colin lives and flourishes while Lintonwithers and dies. Yet both are introduced by Brontand Burnett innearly identical terms. The film features an endcredits song, Winter Light, performed by Linda Ronstadt, based ontwo themes from the score by Zbigniew Preisner. However, the songis not featured in the film's original soundtrack, but inRonstadt's eponymous album Winter Light. The soundtrack, releasedby Varese Sarabande , contains theoriginal score. The film won the Los Angeles Film CriticsAssociation Award for Best Music (Zbigniew Preisner) and was nominated for the BAFTA Award for BestActress in a Supporting Role - (Maggie Smith). Acording toBox Office Mojo the film has a domestic gross of$31,181,347. 