Public Lighting Photo panels can help to carry light to rural places for the purpose of lighting public spaces. This low cost arrangement allows us to light those isolated places which are difficult to reach with the help of conventional electricity supply.

Photo Voltaic Module Performance Ratings - Here are some brief overviews of how to rate a photo voltaic or a PV module performance in order to measure PV system reliability. The peak watt or W p rating is can be determined by measuring the maximum value of power of a photo voltaic module under laboratory conditions where the light levels are relatively high, air mass is favorable, and the cell temperature is also low. As a matter of fact, these conditions may not be typical in the real world. So, we may make use of a different procedure that is known as normal operating cell temperature or the NOCT rating.As a part of this procedure, the module first made to equilibrate with a specified ambient temperature.

This helps to measure the maximum power at a nominal operating cell temperature. This normal operating cell temperature rating results in a much lower watt value as compared to the peak-watt rating, but it is much more realistic. None of these methods have been designed for indicating the performance of a solar panel under realistic operating conditions. Another technique, that is called AMPM Standard, involves the consideration the whole day instead of the "peak" sunshine hours only.

This standard, that seeks to address any practical user's needs, has been based on the description of a practical global average or a standard solar global average day in terms of ambient temperature, light levels and air mass. The following factors are generally considered while determining the performance of an array: Characterization of electrical performance of a photo voltaic cell, determination of degradation factors that are related to the array assembly and design, conversion of environmental considerations to solar cell operating temperatures along with calculation of array power output capacity. The amount of electricity that is required can be defined by any one, or even a combination of the performance criteria that is mentioned below: 1. Power output on watts that is available at the power regulator.

It may be specified either as average power or peak power produced during a day. 2. Energy output in watt-hour or Wh. This indicates the energy production during a certain duration of time. The various parameters are output per unit of array mass measured in Wh/kg, output per unit of array area measured in Wh/m 2 and the output per unit of array cost measured in Wh/$. 3. Conversion efficiency can be defined as "the energy output from array" divided by " the energy input from sun" multiplied by 100%.

The last parameter is often termed as power efficiency, which is equal to "the power output obtained from an array" divided by "the power input from the sun" multiplied by 100%.

PV Modules exhibit a better performance when they are kept at lower temperatures. It seems counter intuitive statement because of the fact PV modules have to be mounted in direct sunlight, but as a matter of fact, they show better performance when they are cooler and the ideal temperature for best performance is about 25. It means that the photo voltaic or PV systems that are installed in cool temperatures of mountains will show a better performance than a system which is of the same size but at the same time it is located in a desert. For example, the amount of sunlight that falls directly at the equator, is much higher as compared to the higher latitudes of North America but the high ambient temperatures can heat up the module and hence reduce the overall performance of the system considerably. The approximate power loss is about 0.4 % per for common photo voltaic modules. Although the sunlight in North America is weaker as compared to the sunlight in South America and the temperatures in North America are cooler, it makes the PV modules much more efficient.

Hence this results in a compensation for the lower solar intensity.

In order to ensure consistency as well as quality of the photo voltaic systems and to increase the consumer confidence as far as system performance is concerned, various groups like the IEEE or Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and ASTM or American Society for Testing and Materials are working constantly on standards as well as performance criteria for the photo voltaic systems.