Disneyland in California is the perfect holiday destination.Of course to make it the best holiday ever you'll want to pick thevery best hotel for you and your family and there are plenty tochoose from. Whether you want peace and quiet or a lively hotelwith lots of entertainment, you're bound to find one nearDisneyland. Choose from official Disneyland hotels in the resortitself, or pick from one of many hotels in the area. Whatever yourrequirements and your budgets you'll have no problem finding agreat hotel.

The hotel was designedby Peter Dominick an architect at Urban Design Group Inc.The design is inspired bythe Arts and Craftsmovement . Although this is a big hotel withseven hundred and fifty room, the building design still manages tocapture all the main aspects of the Craftsman style. There are widesweeping roofs, exaggerated bracesand projecting beams.It is full of thecolours of the natural world. The outside of the building isreminiscent of National Park Service lodges in the Western United States, if you havevisited the Ahwahnee Hotel in Yosemite NationalPark or the OldFaithful Inn in Yellowstone National Park you will definitely notice similarities. The inside of the hotel also features theCraftsman motif on a huge scale. Craftsman homes often have agarden theme.The Grand Californian,takes the garden theme to theextreme.

The garden became a forest. A lot of the objects found within the hotelwere handmade by modern Arts and Crafts designers using traditionaltechniques. You can also discover some early Roycroft objectsdisplayed in the lobby. The design of the reception was based on theinside of the Swedenborgian Church building in San Francisco, butbigger - the reception desk alone is huge. The main lobby is acomfortable living room with a huge fireplace and there are greatbeams in the roof. The room also features comfortable seatingaround small tables. There are rocking chairs in front of the fire,it's a lovely place to sit and relax.

The hotel is an AAA Four Diamond Hotel. The name is based on that of another Disney hotel- The Grand Floridian Resort & Spa atthe Disney World Resort in Florida . The twohotels are very different though, The Grand Californian has theCraftsman theme, but the Grand Floridian is Victorian themed. The Grand Californiahotel does though have a lot in common with Disney's Wilderness Lodge at the WaltDisney World Resort which was also designed by Peter Dominick . As demand for accommodations in the DisneylandResort grew Disney had to respond and in September 2007 they started plans to expand the hotel in size by more than 30%.There also plans for villas included in this expansion. The expansion will be two and a half acres insize and will be situated on the south side of the hotel. Therewill more than two hundred extra rooms and fifty holiday villas,each with two bedrooms. The villas will be like a home, includingall the amenitied of a kitchen, living room and dining area.

Theywill be known as The Villas at Disney's Grand Californian Hotel& Spa. There are many other aspects of the projectunder design. These include a new swimmingpool , a rooftopfirework viewing deck and a huge underground carpark to provide anadditional three hundred parking spaces. Peter Dominick whodesigned the Grand Californian Hotel &Spa. is also designing this expansion. Itwill keep the Arts & Crafts style of the existinghotel. Many of the hotel's rooms and features payhomage to various Craftsman-era architects and designers. T he Napa Rose restauranthas a rose design in the glass which was inspired by Charles Rennie MacKintosh .

Two of the Guest Suite and theCalifornia Boardroom are a tribute to FrankLloyd Wright. There is a large tile mural in TheStorytellers Cafe that is a reproduction ofan original design by the Gladding McBean Company for a Robin HoodRoom in the Wilmington, Calif.

The Disneyland's ParadisePier Hotel is a gorgeous modern hotel.It is often the first choicefor many guests due to the lower prices. Its a great option foranyone on a budget. The prices are lower at The Disneyland ParadisePier Hotel because it was a non-Disney hotel which was purchased bythe park and 'Disneyfied'. People worry that the hotel won't have quitethe same feel or Disney magic as the other two purpose built Disneyhotels, so Disney keep the prices at the Paradise Pier hotel low sopeople will be encouraged to give it a chance. In actual fact, itdoesn't often disappoint.

The hotel was bought in 2001 ready for theopening of the California Adventure theme park, The Hotel isstraight across the street from the fun rides of the Paradise Piersection of Disneys California Adventure Park. If you are luckyenough to get a room facing the park, you will have one of the bestviews of any Disney Resort hotel room. The Paradise Pier Hotel at Disneyland is a3-Diamond hotel.In the lobby is a statue of Disney charactersdressed ready for the beach. The theme of the hotel is beachboardwalk. The premise is that Micky, Minnie, Goofy and Donald haveleft Toon Town for a California vacation. The decor in the hotel isall beach theme.

There is even a sandcastle television in thehotel. Every room in the hotel has a coffee maker anda refrigerator. There is room service available too.Safes andcribsin the rooms are available on request. The hotel has a fabulous swimming pool and awhirlpool too. They are on the hotel roof so they have fantasticviews. There's even a big water slide up there.

For more serious exercise there is a gym on thesecond floor with all the latest equipment including exercisebikes, steppers, and treadmills. The hotel also features a small video gamesarcade. This is a popular hangout for youngsters. It isn't huge sothere is no air hockey or the like, but there's enough to keep theaverage teenager entertained for a while.

Of course the Paradise Pier Hotel has its ownDisney-themed gift shop to buy your souvenirs from. It is quitehandy as it saves you time you may otherwise have spent standing inqueues at shops inside the theme parks themselves, and you can takeyour shopping straight to your room rather than having to carry itabout. You'll find a range of Disneyland Resort, Mickey Mouse, andDisney Princess products at the gift shop in the lobby of thehotel. It is a good sized store. There are clothing items, souveniritems and an assortment of Disney toys. Als with all of the Disney Resort hotels at Paradise Pier Hotel you can have aDisney Character dining experience.

If you would like a character breakfastthe trythe Lilo and Stitch Aloha Breakfast. It's served buffet-style mealin the PCH Grill. There is so much choice including: eggs, (you caneven have a made-to-order omelet at the omelet station), waffles,pancakes, French toast, hot & cold cereals, sweet rolls, muffins, bagels, croissants, bacon, sausages, fruit anda whole range of hot and colddrinks. It's an all-you-can-eat extravaganza with Lilo andStitch. If you visit the PCHgrill at lunch or in the evening you'llfind it is a casual-dining restaurantfeaturing American cuisine. They serve burgers, wood-oven-bakedpizzas, and Mexican style dishes. The prices in this restaurant arepretty reasonable too. IF you are wondering, the name PCH Grill standsfor Pacific Coast Highway the coastal road, to keep in with thebeach theme of the hotel.

If you're looking for something a littledifferent and sophisticated, then perhaps give the YamabukiRestaurant a go. A traditional Japanese restaurant. You can evenorder meals that are cooked in front of you at yourtable.

An alternative to a Disney Resort hotel isthe Best Western Anaheim Inn which is opposite the main entrance to the DisneylandPark. From this hotel you get a brilliant view of the MagicKingdom's Fantasy in the Sky Fireworks. There are no parking feesand you wont have to wait for a shuttle bus, you simply have justto walk 5 minutes across the street and you are inside Disney'sCalifornia Adventure. As soon as you walk in the huge,welcoming lobby, you will receive amazing personal service. TheBest Western Anaheim Inn staff give you all your home comforts andmore. They are there to ensure your stay will be one you willalways remember.

The rooms are decorated in a modern style and have all theamenities you would expect. Such as freshly brewed coffee, cable tvwith Disney Channel, CNN, Movies to rent and ESPN. You will alsofind in your room, a hair dryer, a clockradio, an iron, voice mail, data ports, amicrowave and a refrigerator .

If you require a a tworoom family suite then this is not a problem. The Best Western Anaheim Inn is located right nextto a 24-hour Denny's restaurant and the famous Tony Roma'srestaurant. There are also five other restaurants within a block ofthe hotel. It is also very conveniently located just 5minutes from the Downtown Disney area which features lots of greatrestaurants such as Rainforest Cafe House of Blues and ESPN Zone.The hotel also has a heated pool and jacuzzi.

Disney often have 'gay days' for the gay,lesbian, bi-sexual and transgender community. The Anaheim MarriottSuites offer a warm welcome to the gay community. Since the statelifted the ban of gay marriages, the Anaheim have been proud toprovide a fabulous venue for same sex marriages.

Yetanother great place to stay is The Portofino Inn and Suites. you'llget all the service and ameneties of an expensive hotel, at areally good price. The hotel is very well locatedjust a short walk from Disneyland Park, Disney new CaliforniaAdventure, Downtown Disney and the Anaheim ConventionCenter. The hotel has nintely suites and ahundred rooms. Ther are 82 rooms with t wo double bedson three floors and two non-smoking floorswith 89 rooms. Each room comes with a remote controle ntertainment center with a twenty fiveinch color TV with f ree cable includingsCNN, ESPN, ShowTime and The Disney Channel. You'll getc omplimentary in-room coffee andt wo line phones with dataport and voicemail. These rooms sleep up to four people.

The hotel also has twelve King Suites with allthe amenities of the deluxe room but with an extra living room andbedroom separated by French doors.The living room boasts asofasleep, a m icrowave and refrigerator, aremote control e ntertainment center with atwenty seven inch color TV and a g ametable and with chairs. In the bedroom you'll find ak ing-size bed, another entertainmentsystem, a shower massager and two vanity areas. Ther are ninety six Kids Suites with all theamenities of the deluxe room plus 2 bedrooms separated by Frenchdoors. In the k ids' bedroom you'll findthe rooms are made especialyl for children with ana ctivity table and chairs , bunk beds, an entertainment centre, asofasleeper and a microwave and refrigerator. The adjoining parents room has all the usual amenities tooinlcuding a king sized bed and an entertainment center.

Thesesuites sleep up to six people. You will also get a free morningnewspaper. At the Portofino Inn you can dine atthe Jolly Roger Inn Restaurant whichserves AmericanSteak House cuisne forbreakfast, lunch and dinner. You can also choose to get a takeout.There is live entertainment and a special menu forchildren. The hotel has a heated swimming pool, afitness centre, and a video games room too.