The Origins of the Border Patrol Mounted watchmen of the U.S. Immigration Service patrolled the border in an effort to prevent illegal crossings as early as 1904, but their efforts were irregular and undertaken only when resources permitted. The inspectors, usually called Mounted Guards, operated out of El Paso, Texas. Though they never totaled more than seventy-five, they patrolled as far west as California trying to restrict the flow of illegal Chinese immigration. In March 1915, Congress authorized a separate group of Mounted Guards, often referred to as Mounted Inspectors.

Most rode on horseback, but a few operated cars and even boats. Although these inspectors had broader arrest authority, they still largely pursued Chinese immigrants trying to avoid the Chinese exclusion laws. These patrolmen were Immigrant Inspectors, assigned to inspection stations, and could not watch the border at all times. Military troops along the southwest border performed intermittent border patrolling, but this was secondary to "the more serious work of military training." Aliens encountered illegally in the U.S. by the military were directed to the immigration inspection stations. Texas Rangers were also sporadically assigned to patrol duties by the state, and their efforts were noted as "singularly effective." Jeff Milton, first Border Patrolman Always referred to as "the first Immigration Border Patrolman", Jeff Milton poses outside the Birdcage Theatre in Tombstone, Arizona.

Milton became a Texas Ranger in 1879, at age 18, and was one of the men who hunted down Victorio and Geronimo. He later joined the U.S. Immigration Service. Milton died in his home in Tucson, Arizona in 1947. Customs violations and intercepting communications to "the enemy" seemed to be of a greater concern than enforcing immigration regulations in the early years of the twentieth century.

Agencies charged with inspecting people and goods entering and leaving the U.S. noticed that their efforts were totally ineffective without border enforcement between inspection stations. After 1917, a higher head tax and literacy requirement imposed for entry prompted more people to try to enter illegally. In 1918, Supervising Inspector Frank W. Berkshire wrote to the Commissioner-General of Immigration expressing his concerns about the lack of a coordinated, adequate effort to enforce immigration and customs laws along the border with Mexico.

For over 200 years, immigrants have come to America to better themselves economically. Between 1820 and 1979, some 49 million people entered this country, making America a nation of immigrants. But beginning in 1875, the U.S. began to pass laws restricting immigration. Convicts and prostitutes, the indigent and the insane were excluded.

Other laws restricted the number of immigrants on the basis of origin. In 1904, the U.S. Commissioner General of Immigration established a group called the Mounted Guards to keep illegal Chinese and Mexican immigrants, who were fleeing the pre-revolution turmoil in Mexico, from gaining access to America along the southern border. Numbering only 75, this modest group of men could not sufficiently do the job required of them. Eighteen years later, on May 28, 1924, the Department of Labor Appropriations Act created the U.S. Border Patrol . The operation consisted of 450 inspectors with its central station in El Paso. The area covered by the patrol at first was the United States-Mexican border, but was later expanded to include the United States-Canadian border.

In 1925, the Gulf and Florida Coasts were added, giving the patrol 8,000 miles of border to secure. Dale Swancutt, local Border Patrol researcher, says the agents were known as "inspectors." When they joined the service, they received a badge, a pistol, and oats and hay for their horses, which they had to provide themselves. By the 1950s and 1960s, the Border Patrol had established strict requirements for agents and had embarked on a rigid training program. Elmer H. Hoffman, retired Border Patrol inspector, says his training included immigration law, Spanish, and use of firearms at the Military Police Academy on Fort Bliss .

Horses had been replaced by jeeps, and in 1954, the Cessna airplane became an important vehicle to the Border Patrol. The jeeps had radio transmitters, allowing the men in the airplanes to relay information to the ground crew. Hoffman recalls having to pull "observer duty" in which he would have to fly as a passenger to get an idea of what the border looked like from above. This procedure gave the inspectors views of trails and hiding places of illegal immigrants they would not have seen from the ground. Hoffman says every inspector had to go through this process every month or so.

Ten years later, inspectors had developed other means of tracking undocumented immigrants. James Shelby, a retired Immigration Patrol inspector who was stationed at Fort Hancock in the early 1960s, says that the first thing he did after his arrival there was to learn every inch of the country. Thus, when tracking undocumented immigrants, he could jump ahead because he would already know where the water holes were, the location of ranch houses that would hire the immigrants - or at least feed them - and the people who would give him information as to their whereabouts so he would be able to find them.

Training All Border Patrol agents spend 19 weeks in training at the Border Patrol Academy in Artesia, New Mexico, which is a component of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center. Recruits are instructed in Border Patrol and federal law enforcement subjects. Specific CBP Border Patrol Courses include: Immigration and Nationality Law, Criminal Law and Statutory Authority, Spanish, Border Patrol Operations, Care and Use of Firearms, Physical Training, Operation of Motor Vehicles, and Anti-Terrorism. Federal Law Enforcement Center (FLETC) courses are: Communications, Ethics and Conduct, Report Writing, Introduction to Computers, Fingerprinting, and Constitutional Law. The physical aspects of the Border Patrol Training Program is extremely demanding. At the end of 55 days, trainees must be able to complete the following: a one and a half mile run in 13 minutes or less; a confidence course in two and a half minutes or less; and a 220 yard dash in 46 seconds or less.

The MexicoUnited States border is the international border between Mexico and the United States. It runs from San Diego, California, and Tijuana, Baja California, in the west to Matamoros, Tamaulipas, and Brownsville, Texas, in the east, and traverses a variety of terrains, ranging from major urban areas to inhospitable deserts. From the Gulf of Mexico it follows the course of the Rio Grande (R o Bravo del Norte) to the border crossing at El Paso, Texas, and Ciudad Ju rez, Chihuahua; westward from that binational conurbation it crosses vast tracts of the Sonoran and Chihuahuan Desert, the Colorado River Delta, westward to the binational conurbation of San Diego and Tijuana before reaching the Pacific Ocean. The border's total length is 3,169 km (1,969 miles), according to figures given by the International Boundary and Water Commission. It is the most frequently crossed international border in the world, with about 250 million legal crossings every year. Geography San Diego together with Tijuana create the bi-national San DiegoTijuana metropolitan area. On the left: Nogales, Arizona; on the right, Nogales, Sonora Border Patrol patrolling the Rio Grande in an airboat in Laredo, Texas The nearly 2000 mile (3,138 km or 1,950 miles) international border follows the middle of the Rio Grande according to the 1848 Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo between the two nations, "along the deepest channel" from its mouth on the Gulf of Mexico a distance of 2,019 km (1,254 miles) to a point just upstream of El Paso and Ciudad Ju rez.

It then follows an alignment westward overland and marked by monuments a distance of 858 km (533 miles) to the Colorado River, during which it reaches its highest elevation at the intersection with the Continental Divide. Thence it follows the middle of that river northward a distance of 38 km (24 miles), and then it again follows an alignment westward overland and marked by monuments a distance of 226 km (141 miles) to the Pacific Ocean. The region along the boundary is characterized by deserts, rugged mountains, abundant sunshine, and two major rivers the Colorado and the Rio Grande (R o Bravo del Norte) which provide life-giving waters to the largely arid but fertile lands along the rivers in both countries. The U.S. states along the border, from west to east, are: California, Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas. The Mexican states are: Baja California, Sonora, Chihuahua, Coahuila, Nuevo Le n, and Tamaulipas.

In the United States, Texas has the longest stretch of the border of any State, while California has the shortest. In Mexico, Chihuahua has the longest border, while Nuevo Le n has the shortest. From west to east, the border city twinnings and border crossings include the following: San Diego, California (San Ysidro) Tijuana, Baja California (San Diego-Tijuana Metro.) Otay Mesa, California Tijuana, Baja California Tecate, California Tecate, Baja California Calexico, California Mexicali, Baja California Calexico, California (Eastern border checkpoint) Mexicali, Baja California Andrade, California Los Algodones, Baja California San Luis, Arizona San Luis R o Colorado, Sonora Lukeville, Arizona Sonoita, Sonora Sasabe, Arizona Altar, Sonora Nogales, Arizona Nogales, Sonora Naco, Arizona Naco, Sonora Douglas, Arizona Agua Prieta, Sonora Antelope Wells, New Mexico El Berrendo, Chihuahua Columbus, New Mexico Puerto Palomas, Chihuahua Santa Teresa, New Mexico San Jer nimo, Chihuahua El Paso, Texas Ciudad Ju rez, Chihuahua Fabens, Texas Pr xedis G. Guerrero, Chihuahua Presidio, Texas Ojinaga, Chihuahua Heath Canyon, Texas La Linda, Coahuila (closed) Del Rio, Texas Ciudad Acu a, Coahuila Eagle Pass, Texas Piedras Negras, Coahuila Laredo, Texas Colombia, Nuevo Le n Laredo, Texas Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas Falcon Heights, Texas Presa Falc n, Tamaulipas Roma, Texas Ciudad Miguel Alem n, Tamaulipas Rio Grande City, Texas Ciudad Camargo, Tamaulipas Mission, Texas Reynosa, Tamaulipas (future) Hidalgo, Texas Reynosa, Tamaulipas Pharr, Texas Reynosa, Tamaulipas Progreso Lakes, Texas Nuevo Progreso, Tamaulipas Los Indios, Texas Matamoros, Tamaulipas Brownsville, Texas Matamoros, Tamaulipas.

The total population of the borderlands defined as those counties and municipios lining the border on either side stands at some 12 million people. History El Paso (top) and Ciudad Ju rez (bottom) seen from earth orbit; the Rio Grande is the thin line separating the two cities through the middle of the photograph. El Paso and Juarez make up the largest international metroplex. With the exception of a small number of minor Rio Grande border disputes, since settled, the current course of the border was finalized by the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo and the 1853 Gadsden Purchase. Whether the border between Mexico and the breakaway Republic of Texas followed the Rio Grande or the Nueces River further north was an issue never settled during the existence of that Republic, and the uncertainty was one of the direct causes of the 184648 MexicanAmerican War. An earlier agreement, signed during the Mexican War of Independence by the United States and Imperial Spain, was the 1819 Adams-On s Treaty, which defined the border between the republic and the colonial empire following the Louisiana Purchase of 1804. For a detailed history of water-related agreements along the border since the signing of the 1848 Treaty, see International Boundary and Water Commission Security issues Raw sewage and industrial waste flows into the U.S. from Mexico as the New River passes from Mexicali, Baja California to Calexico, California. To the right lies Tijuana, and on the left is San Diego.

The building in the foreground on the San Diego side is a sewage treatment plant. The U.S.Mexico border has the highest number of both legal and illegal crossings of any land border in the world. A large percentage of the border is guarded by large numbers of patrolling agents of the U.S. federal government. There are an estimated half a million illegal entries into the United States each year.Border Patrol activity is concentrated around big border cities such as San Diego and El Paso which do have extensive border fencing. This means that the flow of illegal immigrants is diverted into rural mountainous and desert areas, leading to several hundred migrant deaths along the Mexico-U.S. border of those attempting to cross into the United States from Mexico without authorization from the Federal government of the United States. For a period of time in the 1990s, United States Army personnel were stationed along the U.S.-Mexico border to help stem the flow of illegal immigrants and drug smugglers. These military units brought their specialized equipment such as FLIR (forward looking infrared) devices and helicopters.

In conjunction with the United States Border Patrol, they would deploy along the border and, for a brief time, there would be no traffic across that border which was actively watched by "coyotes" paid to assist border crossers. The smugglers and the alien traffickers simply ceased operations over the one hundred mile sections of the border sealed at a time. It was very effective but temporary as the illegal traffic resumed as soon as the military withdrew. After the September 11 attacks the United States looked at the feasibility of placing soldiers along the U.S.-Mexico border as a security measure, but made no mention of the Canada United States border.

Some believe the whole U.S.-Mexico border could be sealed with as few as 100 helicopters equipped with FLIR scopes, and a few hundred men equipped with state of the art sensors, scopes, and other electronics.Opposition says this is a violation of Posse Comitatus although the army patrolled the border for more than 46 years after the passage of the Posse Comitatus act.Others believe that the border could never be completely closed, but that the United States could possibly put a serious dent in illegal cross border traffic with a more robust military presence and a larger, more pro-active Border Patrol. Each state in the United States has a National Guard organization that could, in principle, be placed on the border at a state governor's discretion to assist with border security; many states also have a backup to the National Guard called the State Defense Force that could, in an emergency, also be activated for this purpose. However, few governors have done this. Many governors fear a backlash from local businesses and ever increasing communities of Mexicans. Arizona and New Mexico have currently declared the counties that border Mexico to be under serious duress caused by uncontrolled illegal migration, thereby enabling governors to deploy National Guardsmen to the international border.

However, Senator John McCain (R-Arizona) has opposed some measures intended to reduce illegal immigration through enforcement and proposed a bill calling for earned legalization (which many call amnesty) in the Senate. Texas governor Rick Perry has called for the deployment of national guardsmen to watch certain high-traffic spots of the Texas/Mexico border, partly as a response to an incident in 2006 where U.S. officers involved in a pursuit in western Texas lost suspected drug smugglers when their 4x4 vehicle crossed the Rio Grande and was met by several men armed with assault rifles and dressed in Mexican military uniforms. In May 2006, President Bush announced a plan whereby up to 6,000 National Guardsmen would help build facilities on the border to assist the Border Patrol with tactical and technical measures but not enforcement duties. There has been some resistance: in California, Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger initially denied Bush's request to deploy 3,000 National Guard troops to the California-Baja California border.Later Schwarzenegger changed his mind after being reassured of reimbursement and replacement if they are needed elsewhere and deployed over 1600 California National Guard troops to the border. Attempts to complete the construction of the United States Mexico barrier have been challenged by the Mexican government, illegal immigrants living in the United States, and various U.S.-based Chicano organizations. About 45% of all agricultural laborers in the United States are undocumented immigrants, according to migration experts at the University of California, Davis.

According to proponents of open border policies, agricultural work is one of the many types of work that illegal immigrants fill that could not be easily filled by United States citizens. Opponents counter that U.S. citizens would gladly take these jobs if offered decent wages (see illegal immigration to the United States). However, the estimates are vague at best, showing only how many apprehensions were made by U.S. immigration authorities and not showing how many people actually attempted to cross the border.[citation

needed] In December 2005, the United States House of Representatives voted to build a separation barrier along parts of the border. A companion vote in the United States Senate on May 17, 2006 included a plan to blockade 860 miles (1384 km) of the border with vehicle barriers and triple-layer fencing. Although those bills died in committee, eventually the Secure Fence Act of 2006 was passed providing for the construction of 700 miles (1,100 km) of high-security fencing.

Proponents hope that barriers of various types running the length of the border will reduce illegal drug smuggling and illegal immigration drastically.

Today's Border Patrol The 1980s and 1990s saw a tremendous increase of illegal migration to America. The Border Patrol responded with increases in manpower and the implementation of modern technology. Infrared night-vision scopes, seismic sensors, and a modern computer processing system helped the Patrol locate, apprehend, and process those crossing into the U.S. illegally. In an effort to bring a level of control to the border, Operation "Hold the Line" was established in 1993 in El Paso, and proved an immediate success. Agents and technology were concentrated in specific areas, providing a "show of force" to potential illegal border crossers. The drastic reduction in apprehensions prompted the Border Patrol to undertake a full-scale effort in San Diego, California, which accounted for more than half of illegal entries. Operation "Gatekeeper" was implemented in 1994, and reduced illegal entries in San Diego by more than 75% over the next few years. A defined national strategic plan was introduced alongside Operation Gatekeeper and set out a plan of action for the Border Patrol into the future.

With illegal entries at a more manageable level, the Patrol was able to concentrate on other areas, such as establishing anti-smuggling units and search and rescue teams such as BORSTAR. The Border Safety Initiative (BSI) was created in 1998 with a commitment by the Border Patrol and the promised cooperation of the Mexican government. Homeland security became a primary concern of the nation after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Border security became a topic of increased interest in Washington. Funding requests and enforcement proposals were reconsidered as lawmakers began reassessing how our nation's borders must be monitored and protected.

Several reorganization plans continue to be debated to increase the Border Patrol's effectiveness. The U.S. Border Patrol continues its efforts to control our nation's borders. The 21st century promises to provide enormous leaps in technology that can be applied to border enforcement. The modernization of the Patrol advances at a dizzying rate as new generations of agents develop innovative ways to integrate the contemporary technology into field operations. New and specialized technology is being created within the Border Patrol that holds increasing potential to assist agents in fulfilling the mission of the Patrol. Additionally, cooperation with neighboring countries increases border safety and law enforcement efforts.

The future of the U.S. Border Patrol promises to be as exciting and interesting as its past, and will continue to echo the motto that agents have lived by since 1924.