Acquired von Willebrand disease (AvWD) is a relatively rare acquired bleeding disorder that usually occurs in elderly patients, in whom its recognition may be delayed. Patients usually present predominantly with mucocutaneous bleeding, with no previous history of bleeding abnormalities and no clinically meaningful family history. A relationship between the ability of vWF to bind to heparin and to the platelet GPIb receptor, since type 2B and 2N patients have an increased or normal ability to bind to GPIb whereas type 2A and 2M patients have an impaired interaction with that receptor. The use of ABO adjusted ranges for VWF levels might not be essential for diagnosis, because bleeding symptoms may depend on the VWF level regardless of the ABO type. Of the diagnostic criteria, the bleeding history was of prime importance in the clinical decision to diagnose and treat type 1 VWD. These observations could help in the reconsideration of how the criteria for diagnosing type 1 VWD could be adjusted in order to maximize their clinical relevance. Study showed that VWF:CBA is sensitive to functional variants associated with the loss of high-molecular-weight multimers, i.e. type 2A and 2B in VWD, but the assay was unable to discriminate defective platelet-binding VWD variants with normal multimeric patterns such as type 2M VWD.

It was concluded that the VWF:CBA assay should be used in association with rather than as a replacement for the VWF:RCo assay. There have been a number of new diagnostic developments, and these are beginning to significantly influence the overall clinical VWD-diagnostic process. These include automation of existing assay procedures, a relatively new functional VWF assay called the Collagen Binding Assay (VWF:CBA), new automated platelet function analysers such as the PFA-100 and the Xylum Clot Signature Analyser, and specific VWF:FVIII binding assays. The combination of the activity, bleeding time, and partial thromboplastin time successfully identified 92% of the patients as abnormal. Determination of vWF activity should be included routinely in the evaluation of hemostasis in children with symptomatic disease. An optimized vWF:CBA detects primarily high-molecular-weight (HMW) vWF forms and probably only about 30% of the total plasma vWF pool detected by vWF antigen (vWF:Ag).

Because these HMW vWF forms are missing in types 2A and 2B vWD, the vWF:CBA is extremely useful in the detection of these qualitative vWD subtypes. In addition, however, concordance of vWF:CBA with vWF:Ag in unison with low vWF levels may alternatively suggest a type 1 vWD, and an absence of both vWF:Ag and vWF:CBA will suggest type 3 vWD. The vWF:CBA is also being investigated in various disease states, as is its usefulness as an effective marker of functional HMW vWF in both desmopressin (DDAVP) and factor-concentrate therapy in vWD.