Penguinbiology And Adaption to the Environment Penguins are superbly adapted to an aquaticlife. Their wings have become flippers, useless for flight in theair. In the water, however, penguins are astonishingly agile.Within the smooth plumage a layer of air is preserved, ensuringbuoyancy. The air layer also helps insulate the birds in coldwaters. On land, penguins use their tails and wings to maintainbalance for their upright stance. All penguins are counter-shaded, this meansthat they have a white underside and a dark (mostly black)upperside. This is for camouflage as a predator looking up frombelow the water level (such as an orca or a leopard seal) hasproblems telling the difference between a white penguin belly andthe reflective water surface. The dark plumage on their backs isthought to camouflage them from above. This is probably from a timewhen sea mammals were not the only predator seeking penguins for ameal Diving penguins reach 6 to 12 km/h (3.7 to 7.5mph), though there are reports of velocities of 27 km/h (17 mph)(which are more realistic in the case of startled flight). Thesmall penguins do not usually dive deep; they catch their prey nearthe surface in dives that normally last only one or two minutes.Larger penguins can dive deep in case of need. Dives of the largeEmperor Penguin have been recorded which reach a depth of 565 m(1870 ft) and last up to 22 minutes although this is very rare andis unlikely to matched by Emperor penguins on a regularbasis. Penguins either waddle on theirfeet or slide on their bellies across the snow, a movement called"tobogganing", which conserves energy while moving quickly. Theyalso jump with both feet together if they want to move more quicklyor cross steep or rocky terrain. Penguins have an average sense of hearing forbirds (Wever et al 1969); this is used by parents and chicks tolocate one another in crowded colonies (Jouventin et al 1999).Their eyes are adapted for underwater vision, and are their primarymeans of locating prey and avoiding predators; in air it has beensuggested that they are nearsighted, although research has notsupported this hypothesis (Sivak et al 1987). Penguins have a thick layer of insulatingfeathers which are designed to keep them warm in water. This isneeded due to the much higher rate of heat loss in water as opposedto in air. The Emperor penguin (the largest penguin) has thelargest body mass of all penguins, which further reduces relativesurface area and heat loss. They also are able to control bloodflow to their extremities, reducing the amount of blood which getscold, but still keeping the extremities fromfreezing. In theextreme cold of the Antarctic winter, the females are at seafishing for food leaving the males to brave the weather bythemselves. They often huddle together to keep warm and rotatepositions to make sure that each penguin gets a turn in the centerof the heat pack. They can also drink saltwater because of their supraorbital gland which filters any excesssalt from the bloodstream. This excess salt is then excreted fromthe body in the form of a concentrated liquid which flows from thenasal passages. Somespecies will spend as much as three quarters of their lives in thewater. (They lay their eggs and to raise their chicks on land.)Heavy, solid bones act like a diver's weight belt, allowing them tostay underwater. Their wings, shaped like flippers, help them "fly"underwater at speeds up to 15 mph. A streamlined body, paddle-likefeet, insulating blubber, and watertight feathers all add to theirefficiency and comfort underwater. In addition to blubber for insulating warmth,penguins have stiff, tightly packed feathers (up to 70 per sq. in.)that overlap to provide waterproofing. They coat their featherswith oil from a gland near the tail to increase impermeability.Black and white countershading makes them nearly invisible topredators from above and below. Like most birds, penguins have little or nosense of smell which is very helpful when surrounded by another10,000 birds. Like other birds, their sense of taste is alsolimited. Their vision appears to be better when they areunderwater. It has been theorized that penguins are in factnearsighted on land. Penguin Behavior Penguins are considered to be the most socialof birds. Rookeries may contain thousands of individuals. (As manyas 24 million penguins visit the Antarctic continent!) Even at sea,they tend to swim and feed in groups. Mostspecies of penguins build nests, but the nests may consist only ofa pile of rocks or scrapings or hollows in the dirt. Emperorpenguins build no nests; they hold the egg on top of their feetunder a loose fold of skin called the brood patch. There are a variety ofanswers to the question of lifespan of a penguin, the saddestanswer is on average most penguins will die before they are oneyears old. There are a huge number of dangers to a young penguinand these continue into adult hood with certain species of Whalesand Seals that feed on penguins. Therefore the length of life isoften a lot shorter than the maximum length of time a penguin couldactually live. However the question of how long a penguin iscapable of living is different. In thewild there haven't been any reliable long term studies ofindividual penguins that can tell how long they live. The only such study was carried out in the1940's and 50's by Lance Richdale in New Zealand. He monitored apopulation of Yellow-eyed penguins over a 15 year period. Certainlythere were some chicks that he saw hatch that survived through mostof the study; so it is reasonable to put the lifespan ofYellow-eyed penguins at 15 years or more. The only otherinformation comes from studies on captive birds. Zoos and aquariaoften know how old their birds are when they die. However, thecommon causes of death in captivity (Avian Malaria andAspergillosis) are not particularly prevalent in the wild so theexperiences with captive birds are probably under-estimates. On theother hand the captive birds will not suffer starvation if fishstocks go down suddenly and they have no predators (such as leopardseals and killer whales) to kill them. Regardless of this mostcaptive penguin habitats estimate that 10 to 20 years is themaximum lifespan but this also depends on species, with the largerspecies generally being longer lived. It breedsaround the South Island, among other places in New Zealand, andthese breeding grounds are a popular tourist destination for peopleto go and watch these penguins from hideouts, trenches, andtunnels, in their native habitat, interacting with eachother. TheYellow-Eyed Penguin, is the sole surviving species in the genusMegadyptes. Some scientists believe that this species is the oldestsurviving penguin species. The main threats to their survival nowis loss of habitat, environmental changes including global warmingand climate change, and increased predators. David Ainley isleading a team of biologists who will collect data about thechanging demographics of Penguins breeding at four colonies. Thisis in an effort to discover how resource and food availabilityaffects whether or not birds emigrate from one colony to another.He is studying how these penguins respond to the environmentalchanges which are happening more dramatically at the poles thananywhere else on earth. This will help scientists shed light on howspecies and ecosystems across the globe will be affected by climateand resource changes.