Culpeper National Cemetery Tragic Memories of War War is a often a tragically unfortunate affair in which older men seduce young men into believing that the "enemy" is inhuman and deserving to be killed. At other times, it may be argued that their cause is possibly unjust. However the principles remain the same. Older men cause provocations and declare wars. Younger men - the flower of their respective countries and still reverberating with the joy and beauty of youth - are called on to die for them, in order to finally achieve the peace that inevitably follows. I am a veteran with military experience myself, and I can still remember the constant brainwashing to which we were relentlessly exposed, until we reached the point where we truly believed that we were God's own people, and that the enemy (who lived with us in the same country) were inhuman.

I am not proud of the fact that I drove a fifty-ton tank through a local neighborhood as an act of terror. I am however grateful that I lived to tell my tale. Virginia's Sad Memorials The American State of Virginia is not without a violent history either. Military Cemeteries with rows of identical white crosses abound there too. So many young people have died in war that most have no room for more bodies of America's heroes.

In fact just three are still able to accept new burials. These three Cemeteries are Arlington, Quantico, and Culpeper which is the main thrust of this piece.

Arlington National Cemetery is the only national burial ground managed by the Department of the Army. It is the final resting place of Presidents, Supreme Court Justices, Astronauts, Medal of Honor Recipients and other Notable Americans and is, perhaps, best known for the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier - a young person collected at random from a battlefield. These days, Arlington National Cemetery has strict eligibility requirements.

Quantico National Cemetery stands on land that was once part of an American Marine Corps Base half way between Fredericksburg and Washington, DC. The base was a springboard for operations through two centuries. It was initially used by Virginia for naval operations in 1775, and later as a blockade point for the Confederate army. In 1977, it's usefulness expired, the Marine Corps donated it to the National Cemetery Administration which dedicated it on May 15, 1983. Culpeper National Cemetery is thirty-five miles west of Fredericksburg and was the site of many Civil War battles in the surrounding area. When the war ended, a program was initiated by the Federal Government to find the remains of all Union soldiers, and rebury them in National Cemeteries. Because such a large number of scattered Union soldiers lay dead and hastily buried nearby, Culpeper National Cemetery was established in 1867 to become their permanent home. In 1996, Culpeper National Cemetery was finally placed on the National Register of Historic Places in order to secure its future.

The American Civil War The American Civil War that lasted from 1861to 1865 is also called the Civil War when referred to in America. It was an internal war fought over the secession of southern States who combined together as a Confederacy. This was their response to the election of an anti-slavery Republican as President.

In all, eleven Southern Slave States separated from the United States, and formed their "Confederate States of America". The remaining twenty-five States - for there were fewer then that there are now - supported the Federal Government called the "Union". After four years of bloody battles mostly within the Southern States, the "Confederacy" surrendered, and slavery was outlawed everywhere in what was then the United States. Many disputes were partly resolved during a reconstruction era that followed, though others remained unresolved and are still nagging shadows today. The Republican Party led by Abraham Lincoln had fought against the spread of slavery beyond the States in which it already existed.

In the Presidential Election of 1860, the party promoted nationalism, in terms of which threats of disunion would become treason. After a Republican Election - but before the new administration took office on March 4, 1861 - seven "Cotton States" declared their secession and combined to create the "Confederate States of America". Both the outgoing administration of President James Buchanan, and the incoming administration of Abraham Lincoln challenged the legality of the secession, considering it rebellion. The other eight "Slave States" declined secession at that time.

No country in the world would recognize the "Confederacy" either. Civil War erupted on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces attacked a loyal American military installation at Fort Sumter in South Carolina. President Lincoln response was to summon a volunteer army recruited from every State to recapture Fort Sumter. In response, four more slave states declared for the "Confederacy. Both sides raised large armies. The "Union" seized control of the border Rebel States early in the war, and established a naval blockade against the rest. However ground warfare in the East was inconclusive throughout 1861to 1862, although the "Confederacy" did succeed in beating back "Union" forces attempting to take its capital, Richmond during the Peninsular Campaign .

In September 1862, the "Confederate" campaign in Maryland ended in defeat at the Battle of Antietam. This dissuaded the British from intervening (remember, the United States had successfully fought a War of Independence against England ). Days after that battle, President Lincoln issued his Emancipation Proclamation, thereby legally ending slavery which was the original objective of the war. More bloody battles and more "Confederate" losses followed. In 1863, Confederate General Robert E. Lee's northerly attack collapsed at the Battle of Gettysburg. To the west of Gettysburg, the "Union" took control of Vicksburg. This split the "Confederacy" into two distinct regions, while destroying much of their Western Army at the same time.

As a consequence of these successes General Ulysses Grant was given command of the Eastern "Union" Army in 1864, and the power to call on the armies of William Tecumseh Sherman, Philip Sheridan and others to attack the "Confederacy" from all directions, thanks to the North's increasingly coordinated manpower. General Grant accordingly reorganized the "Union" Army, appointing fresh Generals to Divisional Command in support of his push into Virginia. There, he fought several grudge battles against General Lee in his "Overland Campaign" to seize Richmond. However he adjusted his plans in t he face of fierce resistance and targeted the Petersburg Siege instead. This almost obliterated the remainder of General Lee's Confederate Army. Meanwhile, General Sherman captured Atlanta and marched as far as the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure all along the way.

When the Confederate attempt to defend Petersburg failed, the Confederate army retreated. Grant pursued relentlessly, ending in General Lee's surrender to him at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865. The American Civil War was an early example of the new form of industrial war . Railroads, telegraph systems, ships and mass-produced weapons all were all employed extensively. These practice of total war developed by Sherman in Georgia, and of the heartless trench warfare around Petersburg foreshadowed the drama of World War I in Europe, that was to follow a scant half century later. The Civil Way remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting as it did in the death of an estimated 750,000 soldiers, and an unknown toll of civilian casualties. In fact, historian John Huddleston estimates that ten percent of all Northern men aged 20 to 45 years old, and thirty percent of all Southern white males aged 18 to 40 were sacrificed. Victory for the North meant the end of the Confederacy, and of slavery in the United States, and strengthened the role of Federal Government.

The greatest loss of all is what else those three quarter million young souls could have achieved instead. Discovering Virginia General Introduction The Commonwealth of Virginia is in the South Atlantic region of the United States where it adjoins the Atlantic Ocean. It's nickname is the "Old Dominion" and sometimes the "Mother of Presidents" after the eight U.S. presidents born there.

The geography and climate are influenced by the Blue Ridge Mountains and Chesapeake Bay, which shelters much of its rich wildlife and plants. The State Capital is Richmond while Virginia Beach is the most populated City. A total population of over eight million souls live together peacefully these days. Several indigenous Indian groups - including the Powhatan - were its original inhabitants. The London Company established the Colony of Virginia in 1607 as the first permanent New World English colony.

Ironically, slave labor and land stolen from displaced Native American tribes contributed largely the colony's early political and economic success. Virginia was one of the members of the Confederacy in the American Civil War, during which Richmond became the Confederate capital. Virginia has a total area of forty-two thousand square miles (including three thousand square miles of water) making it the thirty-fifth biggest S tate by area. It is bounded by Maryland and Washington D.C. to the north and east, and by the Atlantic Ocean to the east.

To the south lie North Carolina and Tennessee, with Kentucky to the west, and West Virginia to the north and west. Geology and Terrain There are five distinct regions - Tidewater, Piedmont, Blue Ridge Mountains, Ridge and Valley, and the Cumberland Plateau . Chesapeake Bay sets the contiguous portion of the Commonwealth apart from the two peninsulas on the Eastern Shore. The bay was formed by a meteoroid impacting some fifty million years ago Many of Virginia's rivers flow into it.

These are the Potomac, Rappahannock, the York, and James, which between them create the three peninsulas in the bay. The Tidewater is a coastal plain between the Atlantic Coast and the fall line. It includes the Eastern Shore, and all the major estuaries of Chesapeake Bay. The Piedmont is a succession of sedimentary- and igneous rock-based low foothills that lie east of the mountains, and which were formed in the Mesozoic Era that began two hundred and fifty million years ago. This region, known also for its heavy clayey soil, includes the Southwest Mountains.

The Blue Ridge Mountains are an offshoot of the Appalachian Mountain Chain. The tallest point in Virginia is Mount Rogers at 5,729 feet. The Ridge and Valley Region is west of these mountains, and includes the Great Appalachian Valley. The Cumberland Plateau and the Cumberland Mountains are in the south-west corner of Virginia just below the Allegheny Plateau. From here, rivers flow westwards into the Ohio River basin. Climate Virginia state-wide averages Climate chart (explanation) J F M A M J J A S O N D 3.1 46 26 3.1 48 27 3.7 57 34 3.3 67 43 4 76 52 3.7 83 60 4.3 86 64 4.1 85 63 3.5 79 57 3.4 69 45 3.2 58 35 3.2 48 28 Average max. temperatures in °F Precipitation totals in inches Source: University of Virginia data 1895-1998 [show]Metric conversion The Virginia climate is warmer and more humid as one travels south and east.

Seasonal extremes include average lows of 26F in January to 86F highs in July. The Atlantic Ocean has a strong effect on coastal areas, where the inhabitants are subject to hurricanes, especially near the mouth of Chesapeake Bay. Virginia also has an annual average of 3 days to 45 days of thunderstorm activity each year. This is most pronounced in the western area with an average annual rainfall of 42.7 inches In winter, cold air masses arriving over the mountains may lead to significant snowfalls.Virginia averages seven tornadoes annually, most F2 or lower on the Fujita scale.

In recent years, expansion of Washington D.C. southern suburbs into Northern Virginia has introduced an urban heat island primarily caused by increased absorption of solar radiation in more densely populated areas. Moreover in the American Lung Association's 2011 report, eleven Virginia Counties received failing grades for air quality - with Fairfax County having the worst of all, due mainly to automobile pollution. The haze in the mountains is caused in part by coal power plants, and not by nature as some may think romantically.

THE Culpeper National Cemetery was established in this natural paradise on April 13, 1867, at which stage it covered approximately six acres. At that time, it was dedicated as the final resting place for heroes of the United States of both sides - especially those who fell in battle or died of disease during the Civil War in the immediate Culpeper area. On October 21, 1975, the Veterans of Foreign Wars were instrumental in arranging for the donation of a further 10.51 acres from the President of Bingham & Taylor Corporation as a memorial to all corporation employees who served in the armed forces at any time. In 2001, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the American Legion, local officials and several residents succeeded in acquiring a further twelve acres of land. This enabled the cemetery to extend burial services to our most honored veterans for another 50 years and possibly more. Eligibility includes all active duty members of the Armed Forces, and Veterans who served in the military and were discharged under conditions other than dishonorable discharge . Veteran's spouses and their dependent children are also entitled to interment there.

Donated burial flags are flown on Veterans' Day and Memorial Day to honor all the fallen heroes. Cemetery Records Online gives on-line access to all burial records of the Culpeper National Cemetery and elsewhere in Virginia. Culpeper is located downtown in Fredericksburg on 305, US Avenue with entrance from E Stevens Street across the railroad.

Visitors are welcomed from dawn to dusk on every single day of the year.

The Thoughts We Take Away My own personal ones are of the bitter-sweet sadness of youngsters who went off to war, and, if they returned at all, were horribly scarred in body, mind and soul. And if they died a lonely death instead, did laughter ever echo again through those stately ante-bellum homes. Or was there only silent sadness and a mother's grief? And what of the Generals and other leaders who started the Civil War?

They remain heroes to some even to this day, despite all the tragedy they caused. But, as they lay dying on their death-beds, did they ever pause to rue the misery through which they led the youth? Or did they die content with what they did? Next time you wander through a military cemetery alone, set your mind free from politics and glorious history. Think of the individuals who lie there instead. And bless your maker that you are not counted among them.Commit yourself to fighting for peace instead.