The Mayo Clinic Efficient medical care is a combination of expertise in clinical practice, education and up-to-date research. One medical center which illustrates this combination is Mayo Clinic. Mayo Clinic is not just a medical center; it is also a teaching and research center that turns doctors, scientists and investigators into actual health workers who really care for patients in the real world.

Mayo surgeons perform thousands of operations each year using state-of-the-art technology, including minimally invasive techniques and "off pump bypass" heart procedures. Mayo Clinic offers the full spectrum of cardiothoracic and cardiovascular surgical services. Mayo Clinic has one of the largest group of endocrinologists in the world, with more than 50 endocrinologists who evaluate and treat patients for endocrine and metabolic disorders. The body's endocrine system includes the pancreas, the thyroid, parathyroid, pineal, hypothalamus, adrenal and pituitary glands, and the ovaries and testes. It also involves many other organs which respond to, modify, or metabolize hormones. Mayo endocrinologists are careful to evaluate the relationship between nutrition and human disease in an attempt to improve and maintain a patient's health. State-of-the-art diagnosis and therapy options available for endocrinology patients at Mayo include: Adrenal venous sampling Bariatric surgery Clinical dietetics Diabetes nurse educator program Endoscopic trans-nasal pituitary surgery Endocrine pathology Endocrine general surgery Gamma-knife radiosurgery Grave's ophthalmology High-resolution imaging (MRI, CT) Home feeding program Hospital nutrition consulting services Inferior petrosal sinus sampling Infertility/andrology services Intensive treatment for lipid disorders Intensive insulin therapy for diabetics Minimally invasive adrenal surgery Minimally invasive parathyroid surgery Multiple endocrine neoplasia Octreotide scanning and therapy Osteoporosis and metabolic bone disease Pituitary-gonad-adrenal treatment Thyroid cancer Thyroid disorders Treatment for pregnancy-induced diabetes Transplant services Ulcer and wound care There are five Mayo endocrinologists in Florida, 43 in Minnesota and five in Arizona. They work closely with Mayo specialists in ophthalmology, otolaryngology, radiation oncology, surgery, obstetrics, transplantation and other specialties to provide a multidisciplinary approach to patients' problems.

For more than 30 years, Mayo Clinic's Executive Health Program has combined medical expertise with efficiency to meet the needs of busy executives. The program offers a comprehensive examination with access to the full resources of Mayo's medical, surgical and laboratory facilities in a convenient one- to two-day period. (More days may be required if the executive requires additional subspecialty tests or examinations.) The Executive Health program offers an efficient, cost-effective way to maximize a leader's health and reduce the chance of long-term leave related to disability, illness or health concerns. Research conducted in September 2005 determined the prevalence of serious diseases and conditions in Mayo Clinic Executive Health Program patients that may otherwise have gone undetected. The results: 4.9% diagnosed with a potentially life-threatening disease 34.4% identified as having a previously undiagnosed, severe condition 47.6% identified as having risk factors for a serious condition The Executive Health Program blends Mayo's traditional diagnostic expertise with the latest in preventive medicine.

Your evaluation is individualized according to your personal health needs and is strictly confidential. One physician, a specialist in internal and preventive medicine, will coordinate your care. The program is offered at all three Mayo Clinic locations: Florida; Minnesota; and Arizona. Patients and their families from more than 150 countries around the world travel each year to Mayo Clinic locations in Arizona, Florida and Minnesota, to benefit from a tradition of excellence in patient care dating back more than 100 years.

International patients journey to Mayo Clinic for a broad range of patient-focused care and service, from general exams to diagnosis and treatment for both common and complex medical conditions. Most are referred by family members or friends and schedule the appointments themselves; some are referred by their local physicians, who collaborate closely with Mayo Clinic staff. A well-coordinated, team approach is a hallmark of Mayo Clinic's model of caring for its patients. Mayo's collaborative style offers a uniquely comprehensive approach to medical care and is among the primary reasons Mayo Clinic has earned its reputation for excellence. More than 40 physicians at Mayo Clinic specialize in the diagnosis and treatment of infectious diseases.

The infectious disease practices at each Mayo location are designed to meet the needs of patients in the hospital and in the outpatient setting. Experts within the specialty work identify and treat infections that arise from exposure to infectious diseases, or that follow organ transplantation and other surgical procedures. The five physicians in Florida, 33 in Minnesota and three in Arizona also conduct research to improve knowledge and effective treatment for infectious diseases. Focus areas for Mayo infectious disease experts include: Antibiotic therapy Blood stream infections Bone and joint infections Central nervous system infections including meningitis Endocarditis Fever of unknown origin Fungal infections HIV infection and AIDS Immunizations Infections associated with medical devices and procedures Infections associated with organ transplantation Infections related to compromised immunity (prevention and treatment) Meningitis Osteomyelitis Parasitic diseases Pneumonia Postsurgical infections Sepsis Sexually transmitted diseases Travel-associated diseases (prevention and treatment) Tuberculosis Viral infections Two special services available in Infectious Diseases in Minnesota are the HIV Clinic and Travel and Geographic Medicine Clinic. The Division of Nephrology and Hypertension at Mayo Clinic sees more than 4,000 patients with kidney problems each year, and more than 30,000 patients who suffer from hypertension. Patients who choose Mayo Clinic have access to one of the largest groups of practicing nephrologists in the country. Currently, over 45 nephrologists practice at Mayo's three sites, including 28 specialists in treating hypertension. Mayo nephrologists and hypertension specialists work closely with other specialists, including cardiologists, endocrinologists, pharmacists, nurses, educators and dietitians to deliver high-quality, cost-effective care to patients who suffer from problems involving the kidneys, uncontrolled hypertension or complex blood pressure issues.

Comprehensive services for nephrology outpatient and inpatient care, dialysis, and kidney transplant services are provided at all three Mayo Clinic sites. Experts in Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine at Mayo Clinic provide comprehensive consultative, diagnostic and therapeutic services for patients with illnesses that affect the lungs and breathing. The latest technology is used to provide state-of-the-art care in both the outpatient and hospital settings, including the intensive care units. Services offered through the Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine specialty include: Outpatient clinics for evaluation and treatment of various lung conditions Hospital inpatient services for evaluation and treatment of various lung conditions Intensive care services for management and treatment of the critically ill Lung transplantation Sleep disorders evaluation and treatment Bronchoscopic diagnosis and treatment (e.g., laser therapy and airway stenting) Access to various diagnostic and treatment protocols Pulmonary Function Laboratory Pulmonary Rehabilitation Program Training programs for Pulmonary and Critical Care specialists Clinical expertise, research, and education are integrated to provide the best care available while advancing the science of pulmonary and critical care medicine for the future. There are 39 critical and pulmonary care specialists in Minnesota, 10 pulmonary and five critical care specialists in Florida and five pulmonary and five critical care specialists in Arizona.

Rheumatologists at Mayo Clinic provide state-of-the-art diagnosis and treatment for diseases that affect the body's connective tissue. Physicians in the specialty see nearly 20,000 patients each year. Mayo's rheumatologists treat more than 100 types of arthritis, including common diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis, and rare diseases such as relapsing polychondritis and multicentric reticulohistiocytosis. Additionally physicians offer consultative and continuing care for patients with regional musculoskeletal disorders such as shoulder pain, hip pain, and knee pain. Preoperative evaluation and recommendations for patients considering joint replacement and arthritis-related reconstructive surgeries are also provided. Rheumatologic services offered at Mayo include: Outpatient consultations Outpatient specialty care for patients with chronic rheumatic diseases Hospital consultations Diagnostic and therapeutic intra-articular and soft tissue injections and aspirations Outpatient diagnostic arthroscopy Education on rheumatologic diseases and treatments Clinical trials Mayo Clinic physicians have active basic and clinical research projects and also are involved in training of rheumatology specialists.

There are five rheumatologists in Florida, 15 in Minnesota and four in Arizona. Pediatric cases are treated in Minnesota. Pulmonary/Critical Care specialists have expertise in a range of respiratory conditions including but not limited to: lung cancer diagnosis and treatment; chronic obstructive lung diseases including asthma; interstitial lung diseases; pulmonary vascular disease including pulmonary hypertension; sleep disorders; acute and chronic respiratory failure; and various lung infections. Radiologists at Mayo Clinic provide patients with the latest in high-quality diagnostic and treatment imaging services. Working with state-of-the-art equipment and assisted by skilled technologists and nurses, Mayo radiologists perform and interpret more than a million examinations yearly. Radiologists support every medical department with their services. Mayo Clinic offers an unparalleled number of diagnostic and therapeutic radiological procedures, including: Abdominal imaging Biopsy, using CT, ultrasound and fluoroscopic procedures Bone mineral analysis Breast imaging Cardiac radiology Computed tomography Coronary artery calcification scoring Lung cancer screening Diagnostic imaging in oncology Gastrointestinal radiology General radiology, chest and skeletal Genitourinary radiology Hospital radiology Interventional neuroradiology Interventional radiology, including biliary and genitourinary and ablation of neoplasms, angioplasty, guided biopsy and aspiration, neuroradiology and core breast biopsy Image-guided treatment of liver tumors Chemoembolization of tumors Uterine fibroid embolization Aortic aneurysm stent grafting Magnetic resonance imaging, including MR angiography Mammography, including preoperative wire localization and stereotactic needle biopsy Musculoskeletal imaging Neurologic radiology Treatment of vertebral compression fractures with vertebroplasty Diskography for degenerative disk disease Nuclear radiology Bone scans Thyroid scans Biliary scans Nuclear cardiology PET Sentinel lymphoscintigraphy Treatment of prostatic carcinoma with ultrasound-guided radioactive seed implants Ultrasound, including duplex and color-flow imaging Uroradiology Physics Thoracic radiology Ultrasonography Vascular radiology Many radiologists at Mayo Clinic are also involved in training new specialists and researching new radiological services. There are 35 radiologists and physicists working at Mayo Clinic in Florida, 150 in Minnesota, and 33 in Arizona.

Simply stated, a mammogram is an X-ray of breast tissue. Usually two images from different angles are taken of each breast. The procedure uses the X-ray images to find abnormalities within the breast tissue.

Mammography is a screening tool, searching for cancer when there are no symptoms of anything being wrong. A mammogram detects lumps, changes in breast tissue or calcifications when they're too small to be found in a physical exam. Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville performs about 12,500 mammograms each year. In 2002, less than 2 percent of Mayo mammograms done in women without symptoms found something suspicious that resulted in a biopsy. Of those biopsies, only 25 percent were positive for cancer. Our mammography services are available to women and men alike and to non-Mayo patients as well. American Cancer Society guidelines recommend that all women age 40 and over have annual mammograms. A woman at high risk of breast cancer because her mother or sister was diagnosed with the disease should have her first mammogram at age 40 or 10 years before the age at which the relative was diagnosed, whichever comes first.

The first mammogram done is called a baseline mammogram. This baseline becomes the standard for which all future mammograms are compared and the physician can tell if there have been any changes in the breast tissue. A specially trained radiology technologist performs the mammogram by positioning the breast tissue in the screening equipment. Compressing or flattening the breast obtains a clearer picture of the tissue while using the lowest dose of radiation possible. The compression can be uncomfortable but will only last for a few seconds while the X-ray is taken.

Some women may feel sore after a mammogram. Sometimes, additional images for more precise pictures of the breast tissue are required. Although unsettling, this is not unusual and provides the images needed for more accurate results.

A radiologist, a medical doctor trained in radiology, reads the mammogram. The results of your mammogram are given to your before you leave the clinic to reduce any anxiety you may have about the screening. We give you a letter outlining the results and any recommendations, if needed. A copy of the report is also provided to your primary care physician or the doctor who ordered the test.

Many women have dense breast tissue. This tissue appears white on the X-ray. Abnormal tissue also appears white. Because it can be difficult to distinguish between the two, the radiologist may order an ultrasound scan or, in special situations, a magnetic resonance (MR) scan.

Mayo Clinic's neurosurgery departments have extensive experience and expertise in caring for patients with problems involving the head, spine, cerebrovascular system and peripheral nerves. The 18 neurosurgeons at the three Mayo Clinic locations perform more than 4,000 neurosurgical procedures each year. Among their special capabilities are: Computer-assisted stereotactic surgery and radiosurgery to accurately locate, remove or otherwise treat brain tumors Computer-assisted surgeries for spinal disorders including microscopic and endoscopic surgery Intracranial vascular surgery Carotid artery surgery and endovascular treatment Surgical treatment for epilepsy including vagal nerve stimulation Surgical treatment for movement disorders including Parkinson's disease Spinal tumors and vascular lesions Surgical treatment for trigeminal neuralgia and hemifacial spasm Surgery for pituitary tumors Multidisciplinary treatment of complex skull base tumors Multidisciplinary treatment of complex peripheral nerve disorders Mayo neurosurgeons work closely with other specialists, especially Neurology, Neuro-oncology, Neuro-radiology, Orthopedics, Otorhinolaryngology (ENT) and Endocrinology so that patients have access to a broad range of expertise.

They are aided by highly skilled support staff and state-of-the-art technology and facilities. Mayo Clinic neurosurgeons practice in an atmosphere of scientific inquiry, carefully analyzing their large-volume surgical practice for ways to improve. More than 45 ophthalmologists and optometrists at Mayo Clinic offer patients a full range of ophthalmologic and optometric care, from routine eye examinations to complex surgical procedures. Ophthalmologists at Mayo Clinic have expertise in managing eye problems such as cataracts, glaucoma, macular degeneration, corneal and eye surface disease, crossed eyes, as well as many other eye issues.

Additionally, Mayo Clinic ophthalmologists have special expertise for taking care of cancer of the eye, diseases of the eyelids and orbit, vitreorentinal diseases and neuro-ophthalmological disorders. At Mayo Clinic, treatment for eye problems related to another disease - such as diabetes, autoimmune or thyroid disease - is approached from a multidisciplinary perspective, involving all experts necessary for optimal medical care. Eye care experts at Mayo also offer refractive laser surgery, cosmetic eye surgery and contact lens services. Both Florida and Minnesota offer full-service optical shops. There are nine staff members in Florida, 29 in Minnesota and eight in Arizona. Department members in Minnesota are involved in several aspects of research: national multicenter studies, clinical studies and basic science research. General surgeons perform consultation and surgery on medical conditions involving the breast, endocrine system, gastrointestinal tract, colon, liver, pancreas and rectum.

Mayo Clinic general surgeons are among the most experienced groups in the country. The 30+ surgeons perform more than 10,000 surgical procedures annually. There are six general surgeons in Florida, 16 in Minnesota and 15 in Arizona. The surgeons at Mayo are dedicated to continuing improvement and are involved with clinical trials to advance treatments. The general surgeons work closely with other specialists involved in each patient's care to diagnose and provide timely surgical intervention for complex conditions. Urologists at Mayo Clinic provide expert care for male and female patients of all ages who suffer from problems of the urinary tract.

Urologists also attend to diseases and conditions of the male reproductive organs. (Gynecologists treat problems of the female reproductive organs.) Mayo Clinic urologists perform hundreds of minimally invasive operations each year for a variety of urologic problems.

These new types of minimally invasive surgical procedures produce excellent results, and patients often have shorter hospital stays, less discomfort and bleeding, and a shorter recovery period including less time away from work and regular activities. Two types of minimally invasive surgery that Mayo Clinic urologists are well known for are kidney operations and endoscopic procedures used to diagnose and treat upper urinary tract disorders. Mayo physicians are leaders in clinical research that enhances the capability to offer the most advanced treatments available. Specialty services offered through Urology include: Bladder reconstruction Brachytherapy (radioactive seed implantation) Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy to destroy kidney stones Endoscopic and percutaneous techniques Genitourinary reconstruction Laparoscopic procedures including nephrectomy Medical and surgical treatment for sexual dysfunction and impotence Minimally invasive techniques for benign prostatic hyperplasia and other conditions Minimally invasive injection therapies and other procedures for incontinence Robot-assisted prostatectomy Organ-sparing surgery for kidney cancer Penile reconstructive surgery Percutaneous radiofrequency ablation of kidney tumors Urodynamic evaluation There are five urologists practicing at Mayo Clinic in Florida, 20 in Minnesota and seven in Arizona.