Many Internet users and people who spend most of their time behind a computer ask, "How do you watch TV on your computer?" Amazingly, there are actually a lot of people who do not know how to do this. It's not that they are not aware of the possibility rather this is a very new technology and for while it seemed difficult to pull off such an activity. To watch satellite TV on PC is a luxury no one would imagine could happen so soon. A few years ago, people started debating about the merits of watching satellite over cable TV. Today, the contention carries on. Let's enter the battlefield of the two major giants and decide for ourselves if there is any clear winner or perhaps to watch satellite TV on PC is the future of TV viewing. There are two camps of TV viewers, one who are loyal followers of cable or digital TV, while the other group consists of die hard fans of satellite. To be fair, satellite television offers arguably better quality in terms of TV programs. However, cable has an advantage in terms of pricing in most cases. One set back of satellite television is perhaps in its installation. Typically, you would need to install a satellite dish, receiver, etc in order to start receiving TV programs. But this is easily overcome since many satellite service providers also provide free installation as part of the package you subscribe for. Satellite TV folks would complain about the disruption in the TV reception during storms but cable TV viewers are not spared either. So it seems that this little hiccup is a common problem both camps suffer from occasionally. This more or less levels the playing field. As they continue to compete in terms of availability of service, quality and variety of TV programs and pricing, satellite TV is fast emerging as the choice of many viewers. Other than normal TV entertainment, it offers you a formidable combination of entertainment, information, movies and traditional channels. You can watch any program from comedy to drama, sports news and science documentaries using satellite. If you prefer to keep abreast with current affairs in your country or international news, satellite television can offer you these programs from hundreds to thousands of worldwide channels. Even your children can be kept occupied with the interesting and educational kids channels. We have looked at both ways to watch TV. Now, to watch satellite TV on PC is like marrying the two popular ways of TV viewing. All you need is a broadband internet connection, a desktop or laptop and special proprietary software installed onto your PC, and you can watch satellite TV on PC in a matter of minutes. This removes the need for messy installation you have come to associate with traditional satellite dish set up. Broadband internet connection is rarely disrupted and this also insinuates that TV viewing should be smooth and free from interruptions most of the time. You no longer have to worry about catching up on the missed episode of Prison Break because of a broken transmission. Finally, the cost you are ever going to pay is the one-time purchase of the software used to watch satellite TV on PC. The truth that more and more people are watching TV and videos on the internet is not surprising anymore, if truth be told, it is still on the rise. Of course, there are more people who watch the regular television and home videos but the existence of internet videos and internet TV are making its viewers catch up in numbers in comparison to the former. If there was once a point that you turned down an offer of installing a TV on your PC that enables the viewer to watch more than a hundred channels from all over the world, now is probably the time to consider its acquisition. This can be done by purchasing legal and non-fraudulent software so as to avoid possible compatibility issues in the future. TV on your PC entails access to the entertainment brought about by internet television without the hassle of monthly subscription. The software needs be simple, scam-free, risk-free, and true to its promise of delivering quality service to its clientele. This will result in having the consumers need not worry about adware, spyware, or viruses. It also eliminates skepticism. In order to avoid committing mistakes, the basic information about using the said software for internet TV must be taken into consideration. Get to learn the dynamics and functionalities of TV on your PC. Despite the fact that it offers almost unlimited access to free TV, radio, music, internet, and VOD on your computer, it does not give you the Cable TV or Satellite TV programming. Nevertheless, you will get the next best offer, which is internet TV with qualities such as flexibility, freedom, mobility, savings and television variety. In effect, you don't have to worry about a software that descrambles or decodes purchased-TV signal because it does not. Flaws may be present even on the best Satellite TV for PC software. This remains unnoticed until proven otherwise by the end user. This can also happen when there is no adequate information that may help in the decision-making process before paying the one-time minimal setup fee. The flaws are not being revealed by the seller that is why the offer seems too good to be true. Besides, the fact that a high-speed internet connection is necessary for a TV on your PC to be compatible with a Vista or Windows computer, a better understanding is still necessary. 20% (+ or -) is the probability that it might fail. Why? It might be incompatible with the hardware and the previously installed software on the computer. This is still least likely to happen since 80% (+ or -) is the probability that it will function well. There are a lot of possible solutions to the said issue since they are ruled out before the purchase. In the mean time, you can always try out a simple test before the actual purchase. Information should be properly and concisely disseminated to make the consumer totally aware of the pros and the cons of using the software for the TV on your PC. Awareness eliminates skepticism. As such, the customer has a better judgment of the purchase to be made. This is made possible by looking at alternative options. Moreover, not all sellers manage their own financial transactions. Information on who or what company processes and handles the transactions is a plus once a refund is needed. In general, most of the companies that sell these kinds of software are getting the service of third party firms to handle the dirty work, such as financial transactions (e.g. sales, refunds, etc.), for them. Possible reasons for this are the lack of necessary skills and the lack of human resource to do the task. This is valuable information that may be of benefit to the possible buyers of the software. An honest review of the advantages and the disadvantages is the secret to purchasing the appropriate package and software. The best television experience does not come from fraudulent acts like software piracy or from paying so big that its almost impractical and unworthy. The true television experience nowadays is the acquisition of TV on your PC through the use of reliable software. It gives you faster and easier access to TV, radio, music, internet, and VOD for free. The neophytes have a chance to discover the wonderful advantages for themselves. To see is to believe. Not to mention, the offer includes freebies and perks for better enjoyment of quality entertainment. The channels on a regular television can probably counted by the fingers that you have on your hands. You are compelled to watch only what is available, and this leads to boredom. When you share the TV with five more members of the family, differences in tastes and preferences leads you to argue about what programs to watch. The above mentioned problems may be lessened, or even eliminated, by a leading TV on your PC that comes with legal software. Satellite television is basically television programming that is delivered to viewers through communications satellites in space. This presents a tremendous opportunity to service providers as well as viewers when compared to the conventional way of getting TV, like through cab services. Satellite television is not only an answer for people who want more television programming, but it is also a solution for people who can't get cable television in certain areas. This is especially helpful if one wants to watch TV but only has access to a computer with an Internet connection. More Advantages - There are advantages to watching television on the computer and of them is the simultaneous activity of enjoying TV and the Internet all on the same platform. Not everybody has a TV that can access the Internet but a lot of people have a computer and access to the Internet which is why satellite TV on the computer is just a perfect solution. Average satellite TV services deliver not more than 200 satellite TV channels to their subscribers. Even with that number of programs, the quality of the TV programs is not always good and there are some channels which people hardly have any interest in. This is not the case with PC satellite TV software as it allows you to tune into thousands of global satellite TV stations to watch satellite TV on computer. Software users have reported that they can easily find TV channels showing programs like cartoons, videos, world news, sports events and games, latest released movies and TV shows. In short, you can definitely find a program you love to watch.It costs no more than $50 to buy the PC satellite TV software used to watch satellite TV on computer. This is the biggest difference between using PC satellite TV software and satellite TV services. Once you own the satellite TV software, you are not required to fork out an extra dollar for the TV programs. Satellite TV services would normally charge you additional costs if you wish to watch some non-featured channels or LIVE sports broadcasts. If you use PC satellite TV software, this is free. This is yet another striking difference when using PC satellite TV software to watch TV on your PC. Compared to cable, it's affordable. How do you watch TV on your computer and for even less money spent? Satellite TV on the computer is probably the only solution for that problem. Cable television can be very expensive because one has to pay a monthly subscription to be able to enjoy it all the time. But with satellite television streaming straight to the computer, all one really needs is an installed software that will handle the TV streams. This is a program that one can buy from various providers on the Internet but after that, there are no more monthly fees to pay which means that TV is now virtually free. If you are looking for the best solution to your viewing habits, satellite TV streaming straight to your desktop or laptop is the best one. More Options - The other advantage of watching satellite TV on the computer is that anybody who has this kind of software can gain access to 3000 channels from all around the world. This is regardless of location as long as a person has the right software and access to the Internet, like through WIFI hot spots in public places. View Anywhere - This leads to an even further advantage where people who used to rely on TV viewing at home. With satellite TV on the computer, a person can be as mobile as he or she wants to be. This is especially helpful for those who travel a lot on business or even those on vacation who want access to world entertainment. The conventional method of using satellite dish to watch satellite TV can suffer from interferences in places where weather conditions can be harsh. It is a norm for the TV reception to be affected by weather and therefore, the TV picture quality is weak and fuzzy. There could be intermittent stoppages when you are watching your TV. This is most upsetting but unavoidable. But when you watch satellite TV on computer using software, this problem does not exist. Viewing quality of the satellite TV on PC far exceeds that of the satellite dish system in this aspect. These are tangible advantages to watch satellite TV on computer with software. More and more people who see the affordability and versatility of the software have decided to ditch traditional satellite TV dish systems and services for PC satellite TV software. TV enthusiasts all welcome the change which of course includes me who is now able to catch a movie or watch my favorite TV news channel on PC. NTSC (Taiwan, United States), NTSC (Japan), PAL (Europe & Australia). Delivering your power presentation with 1024 x 768 high-resolution dual display for Windows and Mac computers. It is an ideal teaching and meeting display utility and is the perfect device for playing your favorite video files on your home TV. Create a slideshow on your PC with PhotoStage and play it directly to your TV. High speed USB2.0 Plug-and-Play interface for PC or Laptop. Watch HDTV programs (ATSC) or Analog (NTSC) TV programs on your PC or Laptop. Supports up to 1920x1080i (HDTV). Compatible with WindowsMediaCenter Supports Dolby Digital AC3 Audio Output. Includes an additional AV/S Video input for connecting other video sources. (such as DVD Player/ VCD/ VHS/ Camcorder). TVANA305 - World Wide Shipping Available Overview | Features | System Requirments | Purchase Turn your PC into a TV set and personal video recorder instantly with a USB TV analog stick. This device supports worldwide analog TV systems; you are also able to enjoy live TV anywhere, anytime with your laptop computer and PlusTV analog stick. The PlusTV analog stick supports Time-Shifting functionality; you can leave your favorite show to pick up a phone call, and continue where you left when you come back. If you have to work late and your favorite TV show is on, just set a schedule to record with the scheduled-recording function. 