Materials needed t o build your own raised bed: This plan uses two stacked 2" x 6" boards for each side. Lumber : Use cedar 2" x 6" for the sides, and 4" x 4" for the corner posts. If you have wood wider than 2" x 6", it's fine to use but the overall height of the bed should be 12" or less. If cedar is not available, ask your lumber dealer for locally available weather resistant wood. Fastenings : Use 3.5 galvanized 'spiral' nails. You'll need 32 - 40 nails for this project. (3" galvanized screws can used in place of nails - they will hold better but are a little more expensive.) Size : The bed can be made any size you like, but consider: Width : 4' should be a maximum width, so it's easy to reach the middle of the bed. Length : Raised beds longer than 6' will require additional stakes in the middle of the two long sides to keep them from bowing under the weight of the soil. Is treated lumber safe? Treated lumber is often used for outdoor projects. Chemicals used to preserve lumber include organic compounds such as pentachlorophenol, creosote and coal tars. Other preservatives contain chromated copper arsenate (CCA), ammonical copper arsenate and acid copper chromate. There is growing concern about the dangers of arsenic leaching into the ground or rubbing off on people's hands from CCA-treated wood. Until the safety of treated wood is proven conclusively, we recommend you use a naturally rot-resistant wood like red cedar, black locust or redwood. Under most circumstances, these woods will last 10 - 20 years when used for raised beds. Recycled composite plastic lumber is another alternative, and is now available in a variety of sizes and colors. Construction: Cut the 4" x 4" to four 18" lengths. Sharpen the ends with a handsaw or hatchet. (This does not have to be pretty - only the worms will see.) Assemble the two short sides first, on a firm, flat surface. Lay two of the sharpened corner pieces down, set two of the 2" x 6"'s on top and line up the edges. Pre-drill the nail holes to avoid splitting the wood. Be sure the drill bit you use is just a bit thinner than the nails. Stand one of the assembled sides up on its top edge, so the sharpened ends of the corner posts are pointing up. Set one long piece in place and nail the one end to the corner post. Now your construction will stand on its own (upside down) and be easier to finish. Nail the remaining long pieces to the one short side. Set the other short side in place and finish the job. (If your bed is longer than 6", you'll Flip it over and you're ready to install. Set bed in place and tap down corners. If the bed has built-in stakes, as in the 'build-your-own' model described above, drive one corner down a few inches, then go on to the others and do the same. Repeat this process until bed is at ground level. If you try to drive one corner all the way down before going on to the others, you put too much twist on the structure and may split out one of the stakes. Level the bed. Use a level for this task. This may seem overly meticulous, but after several waterings the soil will settle to level, and you',l want the bed to be the same. Set a stiff board (2x4) on top of the bed sides, across the span, and set your level on this board. Tap down the sides as needed till you get a level reading. Be sure to check for level both along the length and across the width of your bed. However, overhead watering with a hose may cause your plants to become more susceptible to disease as foliage that stays moist too long can be a host of fungus and other diseases. Collecting water with rain barrels is one eco friendly way to keep your garden irrigated without using city water. You might be surprised at how much you can plant in a raised bed. It's really a more efficient use of space because you don't have to leave room for walkways. In addition, if you stake plants such as tomatoes, beans and cucumbers to grow vertically and plant smaller plants under them, you'll find you have room for all of summer's bounty in a small space. If you've got a rather shallow bed, you'll be limited to annuals, herbs, and some veggies. The deeper your bed, the more options you'll have for growing plants in your raised bed. Also, it's always a good idea to consider the needs of each one of your plants such as pH, light levels, water, the chemical composition of your soil, etc. Remember that you can take advantage of your raised beds by planting vegetables and fruits closer together than in a traditional garden bed. It's important to place plants with similar needs in the same raised bed. You don't want to grow shade loving plants alongside sun loving plants. You can also separate different kinds of plants in the same bed with the addition of a wooden plank or similar division, but make sure their sunlight and watering needs are similar. These smaller raised beds are appropriate for a small collection of plants. Several of these raised beds placed on a patio or deck will allow you to grow many different kinds of plants. Maintaining Your Raised Bed Garden Maintaining your raised beds is easy. All you really need to do is work the soil periodically and add organic matter. It's best to add organic compost in the early spring, before you plant, so that your soil will have adequate nutrients throughout the growing season. When you're resting your raised bed for the winter, you can also add a thin layer of crushed leaves or other garden waste to the top of the raised bed. In the rare case that your plants have suffered from a soil-borne disease, you may need to remove all the soil from the bed and replace it will fresh soil. If this does happen, you can change out the soil in the bed and continue gardening. This is quite different than with traditional garden beds, where you need to let the bed rest for sometimes up to two years to let the risk of disease to dissipate. Also, keep track of soil drainage after several growing seasons, as you may need to add more sand or organic material and rework the soil. You'll also need to monitor the conditions of the building materials for your raised beds. Woods like cedar are very sturdy and should be fine for many growing seasons. If you've built your raised beds from concrete blocks or bricks, periodically check the mortar and make sure the structure is still sturdy. To discourage pests from attacking your plants, you can add extra protection to both the top and the bottom of your raised beds. If you've got an elevated raised bed you can cover the bottom of the bed with chicken wire or a similar kind of material to stop animals such as rodents from eating your vegetables. Birds also like to eat veggies and fruits, so you can consider placing bird netting over your raised beds. To avoid problems with weeds, make sure to mulch your raised beds. An organic bark mulch will work well, and black plastic mulches or weed guards are another option for added protection against weeds. In general, you'll find that weeding your raised beds is much easier than a traditional garden bed. Note that the sides of your raised beds may heat up in the summer and cause the soil to dry out a little quicker. Simply monitor the soil in your raised beds during the hottest months of the year so that your plants stay healthy and aren't stressed. Note that this same characteristic of raised beds allows them to heat up faster in the spring and fall, which means you can cultivate your plants earlier in the growing season. In addition to traditional gardening with your raised beds, you can easily modify them to further enhance the gardening experience. For example, you can quickly transform your raised beds into a kind of greenhouse if you place a simple plastic structure around them to hold in the heat during colder months. This is a simple kind of green house called a cold frame. You can be as elaborate as you want with your cold frame, and can design them so you can remove the plastic liner or break down the entire structure during the summer to allow easier access to your raised beds. Each spring or fall, it's a good idea to top dress with fresh compost and manure, or, if your bed only holds plants for part of the year, go ahead and dig the compost or manure into the top several inches of soil. As with any garden, mulching the top of the soil will help retain moisture and keep weeds down. Moisture retention is important, because raised beds tend to drain faster than conventional beds. Double-dig the bed area. Turn over the soil to a depth of 16 Leave soil piled up in the center, away from the sides. Burrowing pests? If your garden has burrowing pests such as moles, a layer of 1" poultry netting (chicken wire) can be laid across the bottom, before soil is added. The mesh should continue at least 3" up along the insides of the bed and be stapled in place. If you plan to grow root crops, such as potatoes or carrots, you may want to set the chicken wire lower in the ground by digging deeper when you are setting up the bed. Spread soil out evenly. Add any planned soil amendments, such as peat, compost or lime, and spread the soil evenly across the bed. Water the bed with an even, fine spray. This will settle the soil; add more soil to "top off". (Over time the soil will settle an inch or two more.) Rake the bed once more to even out the soil and youe ready to plant. Avoid stepping on the bed. Once the soil is added and the bed is planted, make it a policy to never step on the bed. Stepping on the bed will compact the soil, reduce aeration and impact root growth. Pets should also be trained to stay off the raised beds. Pathway width. It helps when pathways between raised beds are wide enough for a small wheelbarrow. For grass pathways, make sure they are at least wide enough for a weedeater or a small mower. Mulch the pathways between beds. Weeding pathways is a nuisance which you can avoid by putting a double layer of perforated landscape cloth over the pathway, and cover this with a 2- 3" layer of bark mulch. When laying down the landscape cloth, allow it to come up 1" against the bottom board of the bed, and staple this to the bed. This will not be visible because the mulch will cover it. Some weeds will still appear on your pathways regardless of the mulch. Wait until it rains before pulling them out, or you may rip the landscape cloth. The weeds will come out easily if the ground is wet. 