If your pet shows any of these signs, you must treat it as an emergency and immediately call your veterinarian. While on your way to the vet hospital, try cooling down your pet with wet towels, spray with cool water from a hose or if your pet is conscious, you can as well provide him ice chips to chew.

Keep your dog well-brushed and clean. Chemically- treated Lawn: You should keep your dogs out chemically treated or fertilized lawns for about 24 hours. Sunburn: You should limit your dogs' sun exposure during the day because dogs with short hair, white fur, and pink skin can easily be sunburned. Don't forget to apply sunblock to his ears and nose 30 minutes before you go out.

You start in shallow water and coax your dog in by calling his name, if it's your first time to swim with your dog. You can also encourage him with treats or toy. Always check your dog's activity because running on the sand is strenuous exercise. Dogs are easy targets for sea lice and jellyfish. So, watch out. Never throw your dog into the water. Seawater's salt and other minerals can damage your dog's coat, so it's advisable to rinse him off after his activities. See to it that your dog can't drink seawater, for the salt will make him sick.

Check local ordinances before heading out, for not all beaches permit to have dogs. Be conscious of your dog's skills before trying to make him swim. Most dogs can swim, yet there are as well some which cannot, and there are others which may hate being in the water. Don't let your dog overdo swimming because it may tire him quickly. Never leave your dog unattended in water. WHEN YOU ARE TRAVELING by Car Put ice packs in your dog's crate to keep him cool.

Put a sunshade on your car windows. Don't forget to bring along fresh water and tent so you can set up a shady spot when you stop. by RV Check your generator often when you leave your dog in an RV with the generator on, You should never leave your dog in an RV or motor home that's completely shut up, even if the AC and generator are running.

You should still crack a door or window.

TAKING CARE A PREGNANT PET Before delivery: Nutrition should be given an importance too during pregnancy. For the first six week feed your dog her normal amount of food, then, gradually increase the amount during the final three weeks so your dog's caloric intake reaches its normal amount. However, you should always consult your vet when feeding and what to feed your pet. During pregnancy, like humans, pregnant dogs as well require regular exercise to control her weight, for overweight dogs may have problems during the delivery. She may go for a walk or chase a ball or Frisbee.

While your dog is pregnant, she needs regular worm preventives and flea control. You can consult your veterinarian if what parasite control products are appropriate for your pet. Occasional mucus vaginal discharges during pregnancy is normal even if this discharge is pink-tinged.

However, if you notice blood or pus in the discharge, immediately see your veterinarian for it might be indicating pregnancy complications. A few weeks before her delivery, you should start selecting a safe and secluded area where you can provide a box that your dog can deliver her puppies in. That box should have a rail around it where the puppies can move under preventing the mother from crushing them accidentally. Line the box with clean rugs or blankets to provide puppies good footing for nursing and crawling, which would help their legs and feet develop properly. Lastly, don't forget to introduce the dog to the box before giving birth, for her to get acclimated. During delivery: The first stage of labo r lasts for two to 12 hours and this is where the cervix dilates and the.uterus starts to contract regularly. Your dog may show signs of nervousness, nesting ,shivering, panting, vomiting, and loss of appetite.

The second stage of labor is when your dog starts experiencing stronger contractions and expels watery fluid. How puppies are expelled: - The first puppy will enter the dog's pelvic canal, stimulating her to push more aggressively. - The dog will break the thin, whitish membrane surrounding the puppy as each puppy is expelled, - You should remove the said membrane from the puppies' nostrils right after birth to avoid suffocation. - The puppies' normal delivery interval is between 30 to 60 minutes. Rest periods are normal though, especially if your dog would be delivering a large litter and during these rest periods, your dog seems to be comfortable. During the third stage of labor, your dog will expel the placentas. She may eat the placentas and chew the umbilical cords: these provide her protein and other nutrients. The placentas usually follow each pup, but the passing of a placenta may be interrupted when another pup is delivered.

If you see a vaginal discharge containing pus shortly after she delivers, immediately consult your vet because it may indicate that her placentas are retained inside. After delivery You may notice a vaginal discharge after delivery. Your dog will expel most of the discharge in the first two weeks, yet you may see small amounts over the following four to six weeks. You should observe the amount of the discharge and its color from red to brown, and a change in consistency from watery to mucoid (resembling mucus). Consult your vet if you notice an odor or blood in the discharge. Mammary glands that produce and provide colostrum and milk for the puppies should be examined everyday. Ask you vet on how to apply hot compresses or perform milk stripping two to four times a day to avoid having mammary problems.

Let your vet examine the puppies as soon as they're being delivered and they should be ingested by colostrum within 24 hours. The puppies should gain weight daily, so weigh the puppies every day and record their weight gain. If weight loss or the absence of weight gain observed, consult your veterinarian. You should regulate your Puppies cannot regulate their body temperatures, so you must keep them warm for the first two weeks of life. Drafts pose the greatest threat for puppies. You can provide supplemental heat sources, such as heating pads or heat lamps on low thermostat settings. Just make sure the puppies can get away from the heat source to avoid becoming too hot.

The puppies should remain with their mother during the first several weeks; she will feed them, help keep them warm, stimulate them to urinate and defecate, and teach them appropriate canine interactions.