My SAT Online Score Report My SAT Online Score Report is available free to every student who takes the SAT-all you need is an online College Board account. My SAT Online Score Report shows you more about how you performed on each section of the SAT Reasoning Test™, even if you'll still receive your printed SAT score report in the mail. It gives you the types of questions, level of difficulty, and how many in each group of questions you answered correctly, incorrectly, or omitted. Percentile information has also been enhanced to give you better comparisons with other groups of test-takers. My Online Score Report helps you to: Understand specifics about how the test is structured and scored, including the writing section and the essay. Get detailed insights into how you performed on each section of the test, including responses by question type and difficulty. See how your scores compare to the scores of students in your school, state, and nationally.

Search for the right colleges, majors, and careers based on your scores. Work on improving your scores on a future test through targeted preparation and links to SAT® Skills Insight™. View a printable copy of your actual essay response and see sample essays that received various scores.

The Three Types of SAT Questions Each section of the SAT contains questions that can be divided into three categories: easy, medium, and difficult. Easy SAT Questions You will always find the easy SAT questions at the beginning of a test section. Easy SAT questions account for 1/3 of the questions included on the SAT test. Most test takers will get these questions right. But, don't let that lull you into a false sense of security. Read and answer the easy SAT questions quickly, but carefully. Medium SAT Questions SAT questions that are of medium difficulty also account for 1/3 of the questions on the SAT test and these questions always follow the collection of SAT easy questions. After answering all of the easy questions in each section, concentrate on the sets of medium SAT questions.

Only half of the people taking the SAT will get the medium SAT questions right. Difficult SAT Questions Always try to answer the easy to medium SAT questions before attempting the difficult ones. Difficult SAT questions account for the final 1/3 of the questions on the SAT test. These SAT questions appear at the very end of each SAT test section and only very few test takers will be able to answer these questions successfully.

SAT Essay Do's and Don'ts When taking the SAT, you will have 25 minutes to write an essay on an assigned topic. The content and quality of your SAT essay will determine your essay score. Do's Do write neatly. Do pay close attention to grammar, punctuation, and spelling. Do stay on topic. An off-topic SAT essay will receive a zero score.

Do make sure your argument is supported by genuine examples. Do write a well-organized SAT essay. Do start with an outline. You can develop your essay from there.

Do plan your SAT essay before you start writing. Don'ts Don't write your SAT essay in your test book. You can make notes or write your outline in the book, but the answer grid must be used for the actual essay. Don't deviate too far from your outline.

You spent time writing an outline for a reason. Don't write too large. There is only so much room allotted in your booklet for the SAT essay. Don't scribble out large portions of text on your SAT essay.

Instead, erase the offending words as carefully as possible. The neater your SAT essay, the better. Don't use conjunctions, slang, or bad grammar in your SAT essay. Don't forget that the clock is running.

You only have 25 minutes to complete the essay portion of the SAT test. Don't forget to proofread every sentence in your SAT essay. You don't want to be marked down for a simple mistake.

SAT-I SAT reasoning test is a 3- hour and 45 -minute long test and is divided into three major sections, which are Mathematics, Reading and Writing, which are further divided into three sections each. This gives us a total of nine sections of the test. Apart from these there is a tenth section, the experimental section, which is not scored and could be reading, writing or even mathematics.

The order of the sections though is not fixed. The total score of SAT ranges from 200 to 800. in addition to these sub scores are also reported. The mathematics section is a 70 minutes test, out of which 2 sections are of 25 minutes each and one is of 20 minutes. There are multiple choice questions and grid-ins or student response questions in this section. It tests the students for their basic algebra, geometric and arithmetic knowledge.

The use of calculators is allowed. The reading section is again of 70 minutes, out of which 2 sections are of 25 minutes each and one is of 20 minutes. It includes questions on sentence completion and comprehension. This section tests the verbal skills and the comprehension skills of the students.

The experimental section could be any of the above sections, but it is not known which of the sections is experimental. So there will be 2 sections of the same type one of which will not be scored or added up in the final score. It is a 25 minutes test and it could have any type of questions as in one of the above sections. It tests new questions for future exams.

SAT Tips for Test Day Taking the SAT is stressful for any student. The only way that you can be fully prepared is to study until it hurts. However, there are a few other SAT prep tips that can help you ace the test. SAT Test Centers Make sure that you know exactly where the SAT test center is and how long it takes to get to there. You will need to check in prior to taking the test. Also, do not forget to bring your SAT admission ticket and a photo ID. Most importantly, try to arrive at the test center at least 30 minutes before your SAT appointment to avoid being late.

Before Taking the SAT A good breakfast is not a bad thing, but make sure that you do not eat or drink too much right before the exam. You don't want to waste test-taking time because you are holed up in the bathroom. Make sure that you get enough sleep the night before : your brain will be better for it. It's hard to resist the temptation to stay up all night and cram for the SAT. The fact is, you will be much better off if you spend that time resting.

SAT Test Taking Tips There are many different approaches that you can use that will help you succeed on the SAT. Most importantly, prepare for the test and keep a steady head while taking it. Here are a few other SAT test-taking tips that will assist you: Answer easy SAT questions first . You don't get extra points for hard questions, so don't waste all of your time trying to work them out. In each section of the SAT, the questions start out easy and become increasingly more difficult. Get through the easiest part of the SAT first before attempting the hard questions. Don't be afraid to guess on the SAT.

If you are going to guess, guess smart, unless you are working on a particularly difficult SAT questions, usually you can rule out one or more answers. Know when to skip an SAT question. Sometimes after reading a question, you know that you will not be able to come up with an answer. Rather than spending ten minutes trying to narrow down your choices, skip the question. If you have time at the end, you can go back and have another go at it.

Use your SAT test book. Cross off eliminated answers, makes notes, and mark of questions that you have skipped so you can easily reference them later. It's perfect for scratch work. The Easiest Mistakes to Avoid Out of all of the mistakes that SAT test-takers make, here are the three most common errors: Getting lost on the way to the SAT Test Center. Showing up late to the SAT Test Center. Drinking too much right before taking the SAT.