Good sources of dietaryiron include red meat, fish, poultry, lentils, beans, leafvegetables, tofu, chickpeas, black-eyed peas, fortified bread, andfortified breakfast cereals. Iron in low amounts is found inmolasses, teff and farina. Iron in meat (haem iron) is more easilyabsorbed than iron in vegetables, but heme/hemoglobin from redmeathas effects which may increase the likelihood of colorectalcancer. Regulation of Iron Uptake Excessive iron can be toxic, because freeferrous iron reacts with peroxides to produce free radicals, whichare highly reactive and can damage DNA, proteins, lipids, and othercellular components. Thus, iron toxicity occurs when there is freeiron in the cell, which generally occurs when iron levels exceedthe capacity of transferrin to bind the iron. Iron uptake is tightly regulated by the human body,which has no regulated physiological means of excreting iron. Onlysmall amounts of iron are lost daily due to mucosal and skinepithelial cell sloughing, so control of iron levels is mostly byregulating uptake. However, large amounts of ingested iron cancause excessive levels of iron in the blood because high ironlevels can damage the cells of the gastrointestinal tract,preventing them from regulating iron absorption, high bloodconcentrations of iron damage cells in the heart, liver andelsewhere, which can cause serious problems, including long-termorgan damage and even death. Humans experience iron toxicity above 20 milligramsof iron for every kilogram of mass, and 60 milligrams per kilogramis a lethal dose.Over-consumption of iron, often the result ofchildren eating large quantities of ferrous sulfate tabletsintended for adult consumption, is one of the most commontoxicological causes of death in children under six.The DRI liststhe Tolerable Upper Intake Level (UL) for adults as 45 mg/day. Forchildren under fourteen years old the UL is 40 mg/day. Regulation of iron uptake is impaired in some peopleas a result of a genetic defect that maps to the HLA-H gene regionon chromosome 6. In these people, excessive iron intake can resultin iron overload disorders, such as hemochromatosis. Many peoplehave a genetic susceptibility to iron overload without realizing itor being aware of a family history of the problem. For this reason,it is advised that people do not take iron supplements unless theysuffer from iron deficiency and have consulted a doctor.Hemochromatosis is estimated to cause disease in between 0.3 and0.8% of Caucasians. The medical management of iron toxicity is complex,and can include use of a specific chelating agent calleddeferoxamine to bind and expel excess iron from the body. Signs and Symptomsof Iron Deficiency Humans should always be observant, especiallywhen it comes to detecting sickness. Someone with early stages ofiron deficiency may have no signs or symptoms. This is why it isimportant to screen for too little iron among high riskgroups. Signs of iron deficiency anemiainclude: Feeling tired and weak. You justclimbed the stairs and you're already panting. You easily gettired. This can be a sign of iron deficiency. Decreased work and school performance. It is said that anemic people function less well than non-anemicones. Although it is not yet sure if being anemic has effect on howthe brain works, we can assume that it does. After all, when you'retired, you can't fully do your work, can you? Slow cognitive and social developmentduring childhood. Iron is one the main chemicals that your bodyneeds. So when a child lacks iron, his development can also behindered. Difficulty maintaining bodytemperature. An anemic's body temperature often changes. Thisis because of how the blood circulates in his body. Decreased immune function, which increasessusceptibility to infection. It's easy for anemic people to getanother kind of disease when their immune system doesn't functionwell. Glossitis (an inflamed tongue). A lookto an anemic's tongue will show this. Iron Fortificationof Infant Formulas Everyone knows that iron is importantespecially for babies. Iron sufficiency is important for normalhuman growth and development. The goal of early iron supplementation is tomeet the rapidly growing child's need for hemoglobin and tissueiron and to fortify iron stores in anticipation of later switchingto an iron-poor cow milk-based diet. The use of iron-fortifiedformulas has dramatically reduced the rate of iron-deficiencyanemia during infancy in the last 25 years. Infants who were growth-retarded in utero orwere born to mothers with poorly controlled diabetes have reducediron stores at birth and may require further ironsupplementation. Formula-fed infants receiving iron-fortifiedformula (up to 12 mg/L) during their first year have greaterassurance of adequate iron stores and very low rates of irondeficiency between 6 and 18 months of age. Barriers to the use of iron-fortified formulainclude unsubstantiated fears of gastrointestinal distress,availability of low-iron formula, inappropriate comparisons withthe iron content of human milk, and inadequate and potentiallymisleading rules related to formula labeling. There are no known medical contraindicationsto iron-fortified formulas (eg, iron overload syndromes, colic,constipation, cramps, or gastroesophageal reflux). IronSupplements There are multi vitamins with extra iron foreveryday use. They supply the extra iron we need if our body is lowon iron and according to the statistics it looks like most peopleare. There are many vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients that weare not getting in the foods we eat so it is a good idea to usemulti vitamins with iron to help get and keep our bodies healthy.Most of the foods we do eat are filled with preservatives,herbicides, pesticides, artificial ingredients, and other additivesthat are destroying our bodies, and the bodies of our children andgrandchildren. It was just recently reported that we are not ashealthy as our parents and grandparents and this is because of theunclean air we breath and the many chemicals in the unclean waterwe drink (some of it is in bottles) and the processed foods we eat.We need the iron supplements and the other natural supplements tohelp us get back into our bodies what we need to fight off thenasty things we have taken into our bodies. The first thing we allneed to do is flush out our system by detoxifying our digestivesystem and urinary tract system so the antioxidants can begin tofight off the free radicals. On the whole, researchindicates that the dietary intake of iron by vegetarians,particularly in the case of vegans, meets or exceeds the RDI. Thekey question, however, is not how much iron is consumed, but howmuch is actually absorbed, and, consequently, whether the ironstatus of vegetarians and vegans is adequate. Even taking into considerationfactors like vitamin C intake and use of leavened bread,vegetarians absorb less iron from their diets than non-vegetarians.Some research has suggested that some vegetarians may absorb onlyabout 10 percent of the iron in their diet while omnivores absorbabout 18 percent. It is likely that some adaptationto lower iron intakes takes place. One study has found thatvegetarians lost far less iron from their intestines, compared toomnivores. And in men consuming a diet with low ironbio-availability, iron absorption increased over time. Typically, due to the reducedabsorption of non-haem iron in comparison to haem iron, the amountof stored iron of vegetarians and vegans is substantially lowerthan that of non-vegetarians, but their stores are just as likelyto be adequate. And despite these lower stores, most studies haveshown that the incidence of iron-deficiency anaemia in vegetariansis not significantly different from that in the generalpopulation. It is important to note here thatwith iron deficiency anemia being relatively common among omnivorewomen, the fact that vegetarian women are no more likely to bedeficient in iron is not a reason for them to be complacent aboutthis important mineral. Although the incidence ofiron-deficiency anemia in vegetarians is not significantlydifferent from that in non-vegetarians, vegetarians should not becomplacent about iron. And despite the fact that adaptation maytake place, it is important for vegetarians to eat a diet thatemphasises iron-rich foods and enhances iron absorption. Irondeserves attention in the diets of everyone. For people concerned about theiriron level a simple blood test at a local medical centre will givean indication of their current iron status. For people concernedthat their dietary intake of iron may not be adequate, werecommended that they see an Accredited Practising Dietitian whospecialises in vegetarian nutrition. 