At present, Voyager 1 is the most distant human-made object in the universe. In a dark, cold and vacant neighborhood at the edge of the Solar System, Voyager 1 deep space probe holds the record as an Earth's explorer that has traveled farthest from home. Its twin, Voyager 2 has traveled to more planets than any other spacecraft in history. Voyager twins are expected to survive and relay data from beyond the outer planets for a number of decades in the 21st century. V oyager spacecrafts were designed to withstand any harsh conditions which include high levels of radiation that they might encounter in deep space. Keeping this in mind most of the 65,000 different components were radiation hardened. Those compontnts that were more sensitive were shielded in order to withstand the radiation. As the two spacecrafts were going to travel far away from the Sun, this mission was totally different from the other exploratory missions. Solar panels could not be used to power and direct the spacecraft. The scientists devised a series of 16 thrusters which allowed delicate maneuvers in the probes' trajectory. Voyager 1 and 2 would be dependent mostly on the gravitational force of the planets they it would visit. This force would be used to propel it toward its next destination. In order to power the scientific equipment used on board, Voyager makes use of radioisotope thermoelectric generators. These generators convert the heat given off as a result of natural radioactive decay of plutonium dioxide into electricity. Thus it acts much like a mini nuclear generator. The spacecrafts have got the ability to perform ten different scientific experiments. To conduct these experiments, the crafts include infrared and ultraviolet sensors, television cameras, magnetometers, plasma detectors along with cosmic-ray and charged-particle sensors. For gathering information about planetary atmospheres and the ring systems, the scientists have used radios mounted on the probe. The spacecraft is capable of sending data back to Earth and receiving its controlling commands from the Earth by using a global spacecraft-tracking system called the Deep Space Network. Voyager 1 The Voyager 1 is a 722-kilogram robotic space probe of the outer Solar System which was launched on September 5, 1977. It remains operational till date, currently pursuing its extended mission. As a part of its mission, it has to locate and study the boundaries of our Solar System, including the Kuiper belt and also beyond. As already mentioned, Its original mission was to visit the planets Jupiter and Saturn and it was the first probe that provided detailed images of the moons of these two planets. Voyager 1 is the farthest human made object sent from Earth. It is traveling away from the Earth and the Sun at the same time at a faster relative speed as compared to any other probe. Though its twin space-probe, called Voyager 2, was launched 16 days before the launch of Voyager 1 but Voyager 2 will never be able to pass Voyager 1. In the same manner, the New Horizons mission to Pluto will never be able to pass Voyager 1 despite being launched from Earth at much faster speed as compared to both Voyager crafts, because of the fact that during its flight, Voyager 1 had benefited from a number of gravity assisted speed boosts. At present, the speed of New Horizons is greater than Voyager 1 but when it reaches the same distance from the sun as Voyager is at present, its speed will be about 13 km/s as compared to Voyager's present speed of 17 km/s. Mission Profile of Voyager 1 Voyager 1 was launched on September 5, 1977, by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration from Cape Canaveral aboard a TitanIIIE-Centaur rocket, which was a few days after after its twin space probe, Voyager 2 on August 20, 1977 was launched. Despite being launched after its twin space probe, Voyager 2 , Voyager 1 had been sent on a faster trajectory and so it reached Jupiter and Saturn before its twin space probe could. On September 26, 2008, Voyager 1 was at a distance of about 107.58 AU or 16.093 billion km from the Sun, and it had entered the heliosheath, which is the termination shock region between solar system and the interstellar space. It's a vast area where Sun's influence gives way to other heavenly bodies in the galaxy. The current goal of Voyager 1 is to reach and study the heliopause, which is the boundary of our stellar system. If Voyager 1 continues to function when it finally completes its passage through the heliopause, it will become the first human-made object that will be able to leave our star system. As a result, the scientists will be able to get their first direct measurements of prevailing conditions in the interstellar medium and this may further provide clues which may be relevant to the origin and the overall nature of the Universe. At this location, signals from Voyager 1 take more than 14 hours to reach its control center at in La Ca ada Flintridge, California. Voyager 1 is moving on a hyperbolic trajectory and it has achieved escape velocity which means that its orbit will never return to the inner solar system. Though the primary targets of Voyager 1 were the planets Jupiter and Saturn along with their moons and rings; its current mission is to detect the heliopause and also the particle measurements of solar wind along with the interstellar medium. Both the Voyager probes have outlasted their originally-planned mission. Each probe gets electrical power from three radioisotope thermoelectric generators and these are expected to continue generating enough electric power to allow the probes to keep communicating with Earth at least until 2025. Jupiter's great red spot was found to be made up of complex swirling storms. It was found that below the atmosphere of Jupiter lies turbulent smaller storms and eddies present throughout the banded clouds of this planet. A diffuse cloud of dusty material formed a ring around the planet and this ring had been previously undetected. After studying Jupiter, the Voyager probes went further to study the previously uncharted moons of this planet. As a result, they found the first active volcanoes of the solar system that were not on a planet and as a matter of fact, there were actually nine active volcanoes on Jupiter's moon called Io. The gravity assist at Jupiter was a great success and as a result, Voyager 1 went on to visit Saturn. Voyager 1's Saturn flyby occurred during November 1980. Its closest approach was on November 12, 1980 when it came within a distance of 124,000 kilometres of the planet's cloud tops. The most interesting discoveries were some features found on the different moons of Saturn . One such feature was a crater on the moon Mimas. Th crater is so large in size that the impact that might have caused it, must have almost caused this moon to break apart. The larger Saturnian moon called Enceladus had some huge and unexpected faults and valleys. Due to the earlier discovery of thick atmosphere on Titan, the Voyager controllers at Jet Propulsion Laboratory opted for Voyager 1 to make a very close approach of Titan and terminate its Grand Tour. The Titan-approach trajectory had caused an additional gravitional deflection which took Voyager 1 out of the ecliptic plane, thus ending the planetary science mission of Voyager 1. Voyager 1 could have also been given an altered trajectory, as apart of which, slingshot effect of Saturn's gravity would have helped in propelling the spacecraft to a rendezvous with Pluto, but at that time this option was not exercised, because a different trajectory would have prohibited the close fly-by of Titan. After successful Saturn encounter of Voyager 2, it was shown that Voyager 2 would be able to fly to Uranus with all its instruments operating. NASA provided additional funding in order to continue operating the two Voyager spacecrafts. JPL was authorized to conduct a Uranus flyby. Later on, NASA also authorized the Neptune leg of the planetary mission, which was renamed as "Voyager Neptune Interstellar Mission." 