The Discovery Channel Store online is one of the best online gift shops for real-world entertainment. It is a top retailer of for a huge range of the latest most innovative products such as books, games, informative DVDs, state-of-the-art tools, modern hi-tech gadgets, inspirational and educational toys, travel accessories and much more. A visit to the Discovery Channel Store will solve all your gift giving dilemmas. There are so many items that will help children to explore the world and will also stimulate their brain and help them to learn while having fun. There are plenty of award winning DVDs such as the Planet Earth DVD and Book Gift set or the Blue Planet DVD set. There are also plenty of interesting and unusal gifts to choose from. Including the Discovery Wristwatch Walkie-Talkie set, the Discovery ATM Machine, the Discovery Amazing Money Jar Bank, a twin set of Cube World Series, the Discovery Remote Control Roboquad, the Electronic Handheld 20 Questions Game, the Rubik's Revo lution. That's just a few intriguing examples! There is also a wide range of microscopes, radio and remote control toys, telescopes, digital drum pads, cameras, fitness instruments and outdoor items. The Discovery Store has a team of expert merchandisers who have selected items for each type of gift recipient in their online Gift Finder, simply select the type of person you are shopping for, and you'll be offered up a selection of suitable gifts. Shopping online with The Discovery Store is safe and secure and that's a guarantee. If any unauthorized charges should be made to your credit card as a result of purchasing from the Discovery Store, you will not have to pay them. Discovery Store also have a strong confidentiality policy and are committed to safeguarding your personal details and order information. They also never share or sell on any of your details. There are various shipping methods available, including "Super Saver" which is great if you're cutting costs as it reduces your shipping costs by quite a lot. They will deliver anywhere within the U.S., and also to some countries elsewhere in the world, so check the website to see if they ship to your country. Every item Discovery Store sells is also backed by a 100% unconditional guarantee, so if you are unhappy with your purchase for any reason, you can simply return it for a full refund, no questions asked. The Discovery Store also provides Buying Guides for some items that can be hard to choose, such as weather stations and telescopes. These will help to inform you about the differences between the products available and so you can make a more educated choice as to which product will best suit your needs. There is a big Discovery Channel Store in Washington DC. This is no ordinary shop, this is an interactive, educational complex with three stories of exhibits. Where else can you see a cast of the world's largest Tyrannosaurus Rex skeleton that is forty feet high? There are lots of other exhibits to see, from underground on the lowest floor, to outer space on the top floor, and lots in between. There are always demonstrations going on at the Discovery Channel Store that science and technology, travel, exploration.health, history and nature. There's something to interest everyone at The Discovery Channel Store in Washington DC, no matter how old or young you are. The nearest metro station is Gallery Place / Chinatown. For younger children, perhaps an Arabian Rocking Horse would be the perfect gift. Built to very high specifications this is timeless gift that will last a long time. It is made from chemical-free and preservative free rubberwood that has stopped producing latex and is Environmental Management ISO 14001and 9001 Certified. The wood is carefully kiln-dried to eliminate pests and bacteria. The rocking horse has long, smooth runners provide an even rocking motion. Rocking is good for developing coordination and motor skills along with helping with balance and strength. 