My wife's next question was a bit more practical. "That's fair enough so far," she said. "But where are we going to find the wild cats? In Timbuktu, Siberia or in China? I'm not going anywhere where the toilets aren't what I'm used to, or where I don't recognize the food either." "Don't stress, I told her. "The bobcat is an American citizen just like you and me. In fact, the bobcat is an adaptable animal that prefers woodlands (although it does not depend exclusively on deep forest like other members of the Lynx family). It's found from the humid swamps of Florida through to the desert lands of Texas, and even in rugged mountainous areas. It cohabits near agricultural areas too, provided that rocky ledges, swamps, or forested areas are present where its spotted coat provides camouflage. "Actual numbers of individual bobcat populations depend on the availability of their prey. Havens from severe weather, availability of resting and den sites, dense cover for hunting and escape, and freedom from disturbance also have their influences. Thus presence of humans is not a limiting factor (although large, intensively cultivated tracts are contraindicated). The animal is sometimes even spotted in backyards in urban edge environments , where, if chased by a dog it will usually climb up a tree just like the family cat. "Historically," I continued, "bobcats were noted in Southern Canada, throughout the United States, and as far south as the Mexican state of Oaxaca, and indeed it's still across much of this vast area. They're still found in a pocket of territory in the U.S. Midwest too - although they have largely vanished from Southern Minnesota, Eastern South Dakota and much of Missouri. The prime reason for this being the spread of modern agriculture. "Multiple confirmed sightings of bobcats have recently been reported in New York's Southern Tier, and also in central New York. In addition, they've been seen in northern Indiana, and one was recently killed near Albion, Michigan." My wife stirred at her computer, where she had been investigating the range of Bobcat products. "Why would anybody want to do that?" She asked. I wasn't sure. "Perhaps if they killed a pet canary, or ate a goldfish? If you like the idea, we could look for it in Canada or Mexico too. "Its population in Canada is limited, because the bobcat does not like deep snow. In fact, it shelters from heavy storms in sheltered areas there. The underlying reason is that it lacks the large, padded feet of the Canadian Lynx and can get stuck in snow drifts. In Northern and Central Mexico, the cat is often spotted in dry scrub and in pine and oak forests. However it seldom ventures beyond the tropical southern portion of the country." "Ah!" My wife said. "I get the picture. We could go anywhere from swamps to deserts to high mountains to spot these cats. I like that! Next port of call. Let's go grab ourselves some off road wheels. What's a good place to pay a visit?" "Scientists believe the bobcat evolved from the Eurasian Lynx, which crossed into North America across the Bering Land Bridge during the Pleistocene Ice Age. Later, a second population arrived from Asia and evolved into the Canada Lynx. Thirteen bobcat subspecies are known there. "While the bobcat may appear similar to other species of the Lynx genus, it is on average the smallest of all four. Its coat is variable, although generally tan to grayish brown, with black streaks on the body and dark bars on the forelegs and the tail (this variable patterning acts as camouflage). The ears are black-tipped and pointed, with cute black tufts. There is often an off-white color on the lips, chin, and underparts. The bobcats we'll find in the deserts of the southwest will have the lightest colored coats of all - as opposed to those in the northern, forested regions which are the darkest seen. "The face may seem wide due to ruffs of extended hair beneath the ears, although that's actually an illusion. Bobcat eyes are yellow with black pupils, while their noses are pinkish-red, and they have a gray or yellowish- or brownish-red base color on the face, sides, and back. For night time navigation the eye pupils are round black circles that widen during nocturnal activity to maximize light reception. Moreover the cat also has sharp hearing and vision, and a good sense of smell too. It is an excellent climber, and will swim like all other cats when it needs to, but prefers to avoid water." My wife's busy mind was full of questions again. It was almost like a FAQ page complete with answers. "You do ramble on a lot," my wife complained. "It's almost as it you are a student trying to fill all the pages in an examination script. How far do these cats wander in a day?" "Bobcat activities are confined to well-defined territories," I began, "which depend for size on the sex of cat, and the distribution its prey. It marks its home range with droppings, urine, and by clawing prominent tree trunks. Within this territory a bobcat has numerous sheltering places - typically a main den, plus several auxiliary shelters including hollow logs, brush piles, thickets, and ledges under rocks. "A World Conservation Union report has suggested ranges anywhere from one to over one hundred square miles, with transient bobcats having the largest, and also the least well-defined home ranges. Kittens have the smallest range of all which surprises me not at all. "Reports on seasonal variations are surprisingly consistent. One study found a large variation in male range sizes ranging from 16 square miles in summer, but increasing to up to forty square miles in winter. Another researcher reported that female bobcats (especially those that were reproductively active) expanded their home range in winter too - but that males merely shifted their range without enlarging it (a finding consistent with numerous earlier studies). Other research in various American states has however shown little or no seasonal variation all, suggesting that bobcats have personalities too. "Like most feline characters, the bobcat is largely solitary, although ranges will often overlap with other members of the species. Unlike other cats the males are tolerant of other gentlemen bobcats, while females rarely wander into others' ranges. Given their smaller range extents, two or more females may operate within a male's home range (doubtless to their advantage). However a dominance hierarchy is usually established resulting in the exclusion of other transient wandering females. "Ideal population density is a matter of debate. That's because anywhere from one to forty bobcats have been observed per twenty-five square miles (the average is estimated at one bobcat per five square miles). There appears to be a link between population density and sex ratio, one study noting that a dense, unharvested population in California had a sex ratio of 2.1 males per female. When the density decreased though, the sex ratio skewed to 0.86 males per female. This suggests that males may cope better with increased competition, which should help limit reproduction until various factors lower a high density towards normal." "Having reviewed all that," I added. "I've decided to recommend we use a skid loader on our travels through the Texas Desert." "What is a skid loader?" My wife demanded, straight and true to the point as usual. I sighed. I thought I had already mentioned this. "A skid loader is a rigid framed machine with mechanical arms that can be fitted with attachments for a wide variety of different tools, such as backhoe, pallet forks, hydraulic breaker, sweeper or auger mower, angle broom, snow blower, stump grinder, tree spade, trencher, and even a wheel saw when we want to make a barbeque. "Today's skid loaders come in two different designs, namely a four wheeled system and a rubber track version. The former are typically four-wheel drive and, for additional maneuverability, the left and right wheels systems are independent. The track version (also referred to as track loader) provides for better digging and pushes performance in top-end versions due to less ground disturbance, and better traction in conditions like mud and sand. "The three-wheeled front-end loader was invented in 1957 by two brothers, namely Cyril and Louis Keller, who worked in a small machine shop in Minnesota. Their idea was to help a nearby farmer with his task of cleaning up animal dung for a pole barn. Out of this collaborative effort was born the first skidder machine. Melrose Manufacturing got to hear of it and bought the two brothers out, retaining them to continue with its development. Since then, the concept has become a highly valued piece of equipment that's used in construction and engineering worldwide. Although these handy machines have various uses, most are employed to scrape material from one place to the other, carry materials in a bucket and proceed to load them into a truck or trailer parked nearby." "Ah," wife said. "So that answers another question. "We could carry all my suitcases, a tent, a portable refrigerator and even our barbeque in the bucket? This time I must admit that you've impressed me." "Precisely, Dear Watson," I said. I have to confess to feeling a little smug then. "But listen on a little more." Skid loaders are also handy in tight digging situations, where practicalities limit using a larger digger. Such as digging a basement under an existing house (or even exploring a long-abandoned bobcat den buried in desert sand. In this situation, we'd build a ramp at the edge of the site that lead below. Our loader would follow the ramp to carry materials out of the hole, reshaping the ramp as we progressed, by making it steeper and longer as the hole deepened. "While the bobcat is able to survive for several weeks on water, it will pig itself when prey's abundant. During lean periods, it is known to prey on larger animals (that it can kill and return to feed on later). Its hunting method is a combination of stalking, and then ambushing with a short chase or pounce. In the Eastern United States it prefers the eastern cottontail while in the North it just loves the snowshoe hare. In fact, in New England where these species co-exist, they are the primary source of food for many bobcat. In the Far South, where rabbits and hare are scarce it opts for cotton rats. However, the bobcat is an opportunistic predator (unlike the more specialized Canadian Lyn) and will eat most anyhting when the chips are down. "Our intelligent cat adapts its hunting technique to circumstances. With small animals - such as rodents, squirrels, birds, fish and insects - it lies in wait, crouches, or stands and waits for victims to wander by. Then it pounces, grabbing its prey with its sharp, retractable claws. "In the case of slightly larger animals - such as rabbits and hares - it stalks from cover until they are within twenty to thirty-five feet before charging in to attack. Sometimes it feeds on larger animals such as young hoofed ungulates, foxes, minks, skunks, small dogs and domesticated cats. "Bobcats are a major predatory threat to the endangered whooping crane, and are also known to go after livestock, such as sheep and goats and even poultry. National Agricultural Statistics Service data reported that bobcats killed 11,100 sheep in 2004. This may be a little unfair, as bobcats have also been known to scavenge on the remains of livestock kills by other animals "It has been known to kill deer too, especially in the cold winter months when smaller prey is scarce, or when deer populations become more abundant. A large majority of these kills are fawns , although prey up to eight times the bobcat's weight has been known to be successfully taken. When this happens, the bobcat stalks the deer (often when the deer is lying down), then charges in and grabs it by the neck, before biting through the throat, the base of the skull, or the chest. On the rare occasions that a bobcat kills a deer this way, it eats its fill and then buries the carcass under snow or leaves, returning to it several more times to feed again." "Impressive stuff indeed. We'll definitely keep the tent flap tightly shut at night," my wife remarked. "How are you getting on with your research into second hand? From what I've heard, a skid loader could be a useful gadget in the garden afterwards. "That's right," I chimed in. "We could even dig out that khoi pond you've been hankering after, and then rent it out to get our money back. Now you're talking." I did some more internet research, discovering that in today's world more and more businesses in the construction industry and related sectors are finding it financially advantageous to go for used equipment compared to buying it brand new. The low capital cost appeals to them, and, if they choose wisely, they get top quality used construction equipment as well. A number of Bobcat agents have specialized in this part of the market, of which the following are examples taken almost at random: Rock and Dirt has an extensive selection of new and used construction equipment at branches throughout the U.S. It also offers new and used construction equipment for rent. This includes a wide line of plant ranging from dump trucks to back hoes, and from all the major manufacturers too. Headwater Equipment Sales founded in 1997 is dedicated to providing customers with quality kit that looks good, runs well and comes at a fair price. They have hired a crew of licensed mechanics, welders and painters with over twenty-five years of experience between them in general construction, repair and construction equipment maintenance. All used machinery, parts and accessories are cleaned and thoroughly inspected prior to every sale or rent. Iron Planet established in 1999 in California has grown to become the third-largest auction company in the U.S. They specialize in a wide range of used construction equipment including trucks. Everybody, including independent contractors will find a good range of used construction equipment from a full line of the top manufacturers with them. Moreover their pre-delivery inspections are presented free of charge to all potential customers, for their review and approval before bidding commences. "These are but a few of the many used construction-equipment companies across America," I told my wife. "They distribute through auctions and traditional selling. I'm convinced we'll find a great deal on the Bobcat Skid Loader with bucket we've always dreamed of" "I just hope it will keep up with a running bobcat too," she added in a rare burst of light-hearted humor. A bobcat's typical lifespan is six to eight years, with few going beyond ten. The longest they are thought to live in the wild is sixteen years, although one survived for 32 years in captivity. Breeding starts in the second summer, though females may become mature as early as their first year. Sperm is available by September / October each year , with the male remaining fertile well into the summer. Mating begins with various rituals including bumping, chasing, and ambushing, and other males may observe this practice from a distance. When the female is in a receptive mood, her partner grasps her in a neck grip commencing love-making itself. Thereafter he wanders away leaving the female to bear and raise the young alone. One to six - but usually two to four - kittens are born in April or May, after roughly sixty-five days of gestation. There may sometimes be a second litter with births as late as September, although this is relatively rare. The kittens open their eyes by the ninth or tenth day, whereafter they begin exploring their surroundings at four weeks before weaning at about two months. Within three to five months they begin to travel with their mother, and will be hunting by themselves by fall after which they disperse completely. Now that we had decided we were in the market for a used skid steer loader, we decided to get on with it and find a dealer in the Texas desert area. We had considered using online sales platforms, on the basis that we had heard that more bargains were available to potential buyers there. In the end though we turned to a real used Bobcat dealer on the Austin high street, completed with salesman with string tie and broad-brimmed hat. Believe me, the wife was not afraid to ask direct questions about the equipment. We knew that honest sellers answer questions readily, and that we should be cautious of any seller who seemed reluctant to answer directly. And so we became the proud owners of the Bobcat skid loader with generous bucket that we loaded into tour pickup, before we headed for the Texas Desert. 