a. Fibrous: there is no joint cavity and the bones are held together by fibrous connective tissue. b. Cartilaginous: there is no joint cavity and the bones are held together by cartilage. c. Synovial: there is a joint cavity and the bones forming the joint are united by a surrounding articular capsule and often by accessory ligaments. A. Fibrous joints - bones are held together by fibrous connective tissue; no joint cavity; may be functionally classified as synarthrotic or amphiarthrotic. 1. Sutures - these are where the bones are joined by a thin layer of dense fibrous connective tissue, found only in the skull. a. The connective tissue becomes ossified in adult forming a rigid immovable joint-synarthrotic joint. b. Synostoses is usually the term used following ossification of the joint - bony junction. c. Example: Coronal suture between the frontal bone and the parietal bones. a. Classified as a synarthrotic joint. b. Example: Roots of teeth in the alveolar processes of skull B. Cartilaginous joints : bones are held together by cartilage; no joint cavity; may be classified as synarthrotic or amphiarthrotic. 1. Synchondrosis: two bones are separated by hyaline cartilage. a. Classified as a synarthrotic joint. b. Example 1: epiphyseal (growth) plate region of a child bone with epiphysis and diaphysis separated by hyaline cartilage. Following ossification the of the hyaline cartilage the joint becomes a synostosis similar to what occurs with the sutures of the skull. c. Example 2: joint between the first rib and the manubrium of the sternum. 2. Symphysis: two bones separated by their articular (hyaline) cartilage with a fibrocartilage pad or plate between. a. classified as an amphiarthrotic joint because it permits slight flexibility. b. Example: pubic symphysis between the two pubic bones of the pelvic girdle and the Intervertebral disc between the adjacent vertebrae. C. Synovial Joints: bones not bound together; separated by a synovial cavity; all diarthrotic or freely moving joints. Reinforcement of Synovial Joints intrinsic or capsular ligaments: a thickened area of the fibrous capsule. extracapsular ligaments: lie outside the articular capsule an example is the fibular collateral ligament of the knee joint. intracapsular ligaments: occur within the articular capsule but are excluded from the synovial cavity as they are covered by synovial membrane; examples are the cruciate ligaments of the knee joint. articular discs or menisci: fibrocartilage pads separating the articular surfaces of the articulating bones. stabilize the joint provides cushioning between bones reduces friction during movement Example - fibrocartilage pads on top of tibia in knee joint (the often injured "cartilage" of the knee). Observable signs: 1 - Locking or clicking of one or both lower jaw joints (TMJ), with or without pain. 2 - Limited jaw opening. 3 - Facial asymmetry with one side puffier than the other. 4 - A protruded lower jaw - this compromises the airway so the head is held forward (the forward head posture strains the cervical vertebrae - the thoracic, and lumbar vertebrae must compensate, and now either one shoulder or hip is lower than the other). TMJ Cranial Osteopathy Sequence Treatment 1. First Phase Treatment- Comfort phase: The primary purpose is to eliminate the pain, clicking, popping, locking, headaches, neck aches, backaches, and other symptoms that are frequently related to a condyle that is improperly positioned in the fossa, and discs that are frequently displaced forward in the fossa. The TMJ appliance repositions the mandible in such a position that the condyles are centered in the fossa, and any impingement of the tissues is reduced. The treatment time usually takes at least 6 to 12 months. You will usually start to notice improvement of at least some of these symptoms within three days to three weeks after treatment is started; however, it usually takes at least 6 to 12 months for the injured tissues in the joint area to heal. When TMJ dysfunction is due to displaced condyles; where the teeth used to fit together, no matter how good the occlusion looked, the Temporomandibular joints were not in the proper position, and when the temporomandibular joints are in the right place, the teeth will on longer fit properly. This new mandibular position usually creates a more prominent chin, and a posterior open bite - the degree of which is related to the original depth of the overbite, and to the degree that the mandible had to be brought forward. 2 Second Phase Treatment: From the comfort phase of TMJ treatment, you will move into one of the following two categories of Second Phase treatment: A. TMJ recall - If you feel fine, and have no symptoms when the splint is out, and can move your mandible back to its original bite position, you will be placed into "TMJ Recall", and no further treatment is planned. You should be checked on a periodic basis for a year, or two to make sure you remain symptom free. B. If TMJ symptoms return, Osteopathic treatment, and reevaluate the TMJ appliance will be necessary. It is important to understand that once clicking or trauma to the TM joints is present, the TM disorder is considered a permanent dysfunction because torn, or stretched ligaments will not completely heal (similar to knee and elbow joint injuries). Since the injury to the ligaments is permanent, occasional flare-ups are not unusual, and can be expected to recur during, or after treatment. TMJ Cranial Osteopathy treatments are supporting the whole patient (Physically, Mentally and Spiritually) to learn the necessary tools to overcome the challenges of life. The true commitment of the Practitioner is to synchronize with the Health and treat the patient as a whole being. The unique shapes of the small bones of the thumb permit its movement in and out of the plane of the palm to oppose the other fingers. The stability of the carpometacarpal joint of the thumb depends on several small ligaments, which allow movement but remain close to the joint surfaces. If the ligaments loosen and permit too much sliding of the joint surfaces, increased wear on the joint cartilage may occur - leading to arthritis. A fracture or injury can also lead to joint dysfunction and deterioration, ultimately leading to arthritis as well. one of the most common and serious inflammatory forms of arthritis - affecting approximately 1 percent of the total population. It is an aggressive autoimmune type of arthritis that can dramatically reduce life span if left untreated. Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA) is the most common form of childhood arthritis. RA is a systemic disease that affects the synovial tissue, which lines the joints. The body's own immune system mistakenly attacks the synovium - which over time can destroy the joint tissues, including cartilage, ligaments, tendons and bone. In the upper body, RA can occur in joints in the fingers, wrist, elbow and shoulder. RA changes the normal structure and function of cartilage and may increase a patient risk of developing osteoarthritis. RA can be a chronic condition, or produce periods of active symptoms (flare ups) and periods of no symptoms (remission). In RA of the fingers, deformity becomes evident as the disease progresses. The MCP joints of the fingers may begin to point sideways towards the little finger. This is known as the ulnar drift. This drift can cause weakness and pain, making daily activities difficult. The exact causes for RA, as with other forms of arthritis, are unknown. Though genetics are thought to play a large role. Environmental factors are also thought to play a role in who is diagnosed. Research indicates that RA can be triggered by an infection, possibly a virus or bacterium, in those hereditarily predisposed to the disease. Signs of RA include joint swelling, limited range of motion, tenderness, pain during motion, and joint "warmth." If experiencing these symptoms for more than two weeks, a medical consult is advised. As RA progresses in some patients, small lumps of tissue under the skin may develop. These are called rheumatoid nodules and may form under the skin of the elbow or hands. Diagnosis: Following an assessment of a patient's history and a physical examination, a number of tests can be performed to assist in the diagnosis of RA. Blood tests can identify agents indicative of RA. And the appropriate radiographic testing over a period of time can reveal joint damage and progression of the disease. Among the upper body joints, it most frequently affects the fingers. Nearly 90 percent of women and 80 percent of men between the ages of 75 and 79 have X-ray evidence of osteoarthritis in their hands. Though less frequently, it also affects the wrists, elbows and shoulders. When found in these joints, there is generally a history of injury or extreme stress to the joint. Repetitive work-related injury and physical trauma can contribute to the development of OA as well. While the specific cause of OA is unknown, it is believed that repetitive stress and history of injury weakness and begins to tear down the cartilage that helps cushion the bones in the joint, and the process of joint degeneration begins. OA is a less aggressive form of arthritis than Rheumatoid. It progresses slowly. Early signs include joint ache following physical activity or a work out. Other symptoms associated with OA include: swelling and tenderness in the joint, stiffness following periods of inactivity, pain and inflammation in the joint, and possible feeling or sound of bone rubbing on bone, or crunching, when the joint is use. Though OA can begin when young, it generally occurs in older adults. OA is more often diagnosed in men before the age of 45 and in women after the age of 45. Some risk factors include a history of joint injury or repeated stress, a double-jointed ability, and a genetic defect affecting cartilage health. If experiencing joint pain, stiffness and/or swelling in excess of two weeks, a medical consult is advised. Diagnosis: After assessing a patient history and a physical examination, an X-ray may help show the degree of joint damage. And a series of X-rays can help determine the rate of progression. Joint aspiration, which is the removal of synovial fluid from the affected joint, may also assist in diagnosis. Treatment:determined based on the affect OA has had on a patient's joints at the time of diagnosis, as well as the type of joint affected. It may involve conservative treatment - including anti-inflammatory medications such as aspirin or ibuprofen, refrain from inflammatory activity, cortisone injections, rehabilitation and occupational therapy (particularly when affecting hands and fingers), as well as special bracing of hands and fingers to help support them - reducing pain and preventing deformity. In more advanced cases joint fusion, or arthrodesis may be indicated in order to eliminate pain by allowing the bones to grow, or fuse, together. While this reduces range of motion, it is successful in eliminating pain and preventing deformity. Joint replacement, or arthroplasty, is also an option depending on the health of the patient and advanced stage of the disease. Lyme arthritis Due toinfection with Ixodes tick borne spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi; jointsaffected after weeks to years Causeschronic arthritis of large joints with pannus formation in 10% Alsoaffects skin, heart, nervous system Grossimages: erythemamigrans skin lesion Micro: chronic papillary synovitis with hyperplasia, fibrindeposition, mononuclear cell infiltrates, onion skin thickening of arterialwalls; resembles rheumatoid arthritis Microimages: Borreliaburgdorferi Positivestains: silver stain highlightsbacteria EM: surface fibrin-like material, thickened synoviallining cell layer, evidence of vascular injury, Borrelia-like structures insynovial membranes and some synovial fluid cell samples Spondylodiskitis Inflammationof intervertebral disk tissue and adjacent vertebrae, which are normallyresistant to infection due to avascularity Usuallyassociated with back pain, involves lumbar segments, ages 50+ years, malepredominance Increasedfrequency of diagnosis due to magnetic resonance imaging Mostcases are due to pyogenic organisms (Staph, Strep) Diagnosis: culture usually positive (78%) although specialstains are usually negative MRIimages: destructionof vertebral bodies and disk tissue Micro: vascularization, myxoid degeneration, necrosis ofdisk, chronic osteomyelitis; variable acute osteomyelitis (25%), granulationtissue; tuberculous infection has caseating granulomas Microimages: G/H:inflammatory cells and bacteria Suppurative arthritis Due toseeding of joint during bacteremia, most commonly due to Staphylococcus,Streptococcus, gram negative rods; rarely syphilis Alsodue to postsurgical infection Neonates: often due to osteomyelitis Youngwomen: most commonly due togonorrhea (gram negative intracellular diplococci, which is associated withmultiple joint involvement, including the knee) Sicklecell disease: Salmonella Riskfactors: immune deficiencies, severeillness, joint trauma, chronic arthritis, intravenous drug abuse Symptoms: sudden development of acutely painful and swollenjoint with restricted range of motion, systemic findings Sites: usually single joint (knee, hip, shoulder) Micro: neutrophils (also Bechet disease, familial Mediterraneanfever) Tuberculous arthritis Insidiousonset of chronic progressive arthritis, usually monoarticular in kneeand hip; usually after osteomyelitis Leadsto fibrous ankylosis of joint with obliteration of joint space Candetect from culture and examination of synovial fluid PCR issensitive; apparent false positives in clinically negative patients mayrepresent early disease (Archives2004;128:205) Xrays: marginal erosion of hip and knee joints, withdestruction of subchondral bone on both sides of joint and loss of joint space